Income Care Plus
Business Overheads Cover

Policy Document

This document is an agreement between you and
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited
ABN 12 004 021 809 AFSL 235035 (CMLA).

This document is issued by The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited, Level 1, 11 Harbour Street,
Sydney NSW 2000.

Important information

The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited ABN 12 004 021 809 AFSL 235035 (CMLA) (the Insurer) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Commonwealth Bank of
Australia ABN 48 123 123 124. Commonwealth Bank of Australia and its subsidiaries do not guarantee the obligations or performance of the Insurer or the products it
offers. CommInsure is a registered business name of The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited.

For the purposes of this document, the terms ‘we’, ‘our’ and ‘us’ will refer to The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited, the ‘Life Company’ issuing the life
insurance Policy.

IFCi

Contents

Some information about this Policy
Overview

Worldwide cover

Premiums

Upgrade provision

Policy conditions
1.    Interpreting this Policy Document

2.   Important definitions

3.   Benefits

3.1

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5

3.6

Total Disability Benefit

Partial Disability Benefit

Automatic Indexation

Recurrent Disability Benefit

Elective surgery

Specific Injuries Benefit

3.7  Crisis Benefit

3.8

3.9

Accommodation Benefit

Family Support Benefit

3.10  Home Care Benefit

3.11  Rehabilitation Benefit

3.12   Rehabilitation Expenses Benefit

3.13   Bed Confinement Benefit

3.14   Death Benefit

3.15   Transportation Benefit

3.16   Overseas Assist Benefit

3.17   Reward Cover Benefit

3.18   Medical Professionals Benefit

3.19   Extended Cover

3.20   Guaranteed Insurability

3.21   Reduction of Waiting Period

3.22   Unemployment Benefit

   3.23   Domestic Help Benefit

4.    Options

4.1

Increasing Claim Option

4.2  Accident Option

4.3  Super Continuance Option

4.4  Cash Back Option

4.5  Premium Saver Option

4.6  Total Temporary Disablement (TTD)

Cover Option

4.7  Permanent Disablement Cover Option

2

2

2

2

2

3

3

4

9

9

9

9

10

10

10

11

11

12

12

12

13

13

13

13

13

14

14

15

15

16

16

18

19

19

19

19

19

20

20

21

5.    Business Overheads Cover

6.    Premiums and charges

6.1

Premiums

6.2  Charges

7.    Claims

7.1

How to claim

7.2  Our requirements

7.3

Payment of benefits

8.   Limitations, exclusions and other conditions

8.1

Benefit offsets

8.2  Concurrent benefits

8.3

8.4

8.5

8.6

Pre-existing conditions

Exclusions

Benefit limitation

Term of your cover

8.7  Changes to your Policy

9.    Medical definitions

22

24

24

25

26

26

26

26

27

27

27

27

27

28

28

28

29

1

Some information about this Policy

Overview
The Income Care Plus Policy is designed to replace a proportion
of your income if you suffer a Sickness or Injury and cannot work,
subject to the conditions of this Policy. It also provides a variety of
additional benefits to give you added protection.

Business Overheads Cover will help pay the expenses of running
your business if you are unable to work because of your Sickness
or Injury. It can be added to Income Care Plus or purchased on
its own.

Worldwide cover
This Policy provides cover 24 hours a day anywhere in
the world.

Premiums
The cost of cover will depend on your age, health, gender,
occupation, whether or not you smoke and any sporting or
recreational activities in which you may participate and the
combination of Waiting Period, Benefit Period, Cover Expiry Date,
Monthly Benefit and options selected. Stamp duty and any other
loadings applied to the Policy will also affect the cost of cover.
Premiums are payable annually in advance and can also be paid
in monthly, quarterly or half-yearly instalments by a method
approved by us.

This Policy does not acquire a surrender or cash-in value at any
point but the Cash Back Option may apply (see page 19).

Upgrade provision
Future versions of this product may be introduced. If this
happens, all policies in a group will be upgraded to include the
improved terms and conditions within a reasonable time frame
(generally on the next Policy Anniversary Date), but only if no
policy in that group will be disadvantaged. Improved terms and
conditions may not apply in respect of any pre-existing
conditions at the time the improvement took place.

2

Some information about this Policy

Policy conditions

Cooling-off period
From the date we issue this Policy, you have 28 days to check
that it meets your needs. This is known as the cooling-off period.
Within this time you may cancel the Policy and receive a full
refund of any premiums (and charges) paid.

If you wish to cancel, we ask that you put your request in writing
and send it to us with this Policy Document and your Policy
Schedule.

Guaranteed renewable
We cannot cancel this Policy, increase the premium rates for this
Policy or place any further restrictions on the cover presently
provided by this Policy as a result of:

•	 the number of claims made under this Policy or

•	 any change in your state of health, occupation or pastimes.

Legal interpretation
This Policy is subject to and governed by the laws of the State of
New South Wales.

Notices
Any notice you give to us under this Policy must be given to us in
writing. Any notice which we give to you must also be given in
writing, and will be effective if it is delivered personally, or
delivered to or posted to the address last known to us.

Policy Schedule
The Policy Schedule contains the individual details of
your Policy and must be read in conjunction with these
Policy conditions.

References
In this Policy Document, a reference to ‘you’ or ‘your’ is a
reference to the person whose name appears in the Policy
Schedule as the Life Insured. Where the context permits, it also
includes the person whose name appears in the Policy Schedule
as the Policy Owner. However, in the context of any payment we
make to you, or any changes you request or rights you exercise
regarding the Policy, ‘you’ and ‘your’ only refers to the Policy
Owner.

Superannuation policies
This Policy cannot be held subject to the trusts of a
superannuation fund.

1. Interpreting this Policy Document
This Policy is a contract
This Policy is a contract that consists of:

•	 the application form in which you applied for this Policy

•	 any other documents which you have signed for the purposes

of this Policy

•	 the Policy conditions in this document

•	 the latest Policy Schedule we have issued for this Policy and

•	 any document we have issued which records an authorised

variation of this Policy.

Confirmation of Electronic Application and
Personal Statement
If you applied for this Policy electronically via our online
application facility, this Policy terminates at midnight on the
Termination Date unless:

•	 we receive, on or before the Termination Date, a Confirmation

of Electronic Application and Personal Statement (‘the
Confirmation’) in respect of your application for this Policy and

•	 the Confirmation received by us is in the form, and provided by

you and such other person or persons, required by us

where the Termination Date is the 30th day after the Date
Insured From.

Cancellation of an existing policy
If you indicated in your application for this Policy that this Policy is
to replace existing cover that insures the Life Insured, your cover
under this Policy is conditional on that existing cover being
cancelled before the occurrence of an insured event under the
existing cover. Until this cancellation occurs, you will not be
covered under this Policy despite any provision in it to the
contrary. If your cover under this Policy exceeds the existing
cover to be replaced, this condition will not apply to the cover
under this Policy to the extent that it exceeds the existing cover.

Changes in the law
We may vary any of the terms and conditions of this Policy,
including premiums, immediately if there is a material change to
the law and as a result:

•	 it becomes impossible or impractical to carry out our

obligations under the Policy

•	 the basis of taxation of CMLA or this Policy is changed

•	 government levies relating to CMLA or this Policy are imposed

or changed or

•	 the provisions of the Policy would otherwise become

inconsistent with the law.

This condition does not apply to the extent that it would prevent
the Policy from being treated as life insurance business under the
Life Insurance Act 1995 (or any legislation that replaces it).

3

Policy conditions

2. Important definitions
Agreed Value Policy
You have an ‘Agreed Value Policy’ for the purposes of the terms
and conditions of this Policy if the Monthly Benefit shown on your
Policy Schedule appears as ‘Agreed Value’.

Annualised Monthly Benefit
The Annualised Monthly Benefit is the amount calculated as
follows:

12

x

 (A minus B)

C

where ‘A’ is the total of the following amounts:

•	 the amount shown as the Monthly Benefit in your Policy

Schedule, as increased or decreased in accordance with the
conditions of this Policy.

•	 the amount, if any, shown as the Super Continuance Monthly
Benefit in your Policy Schedule, as increased or decreased in
accordance with the conditions of this Policy.

‘B’ is the amount by which the Disability Benefit, which would
have been payable to you had you not elected to receive the
Permanent Disablement Benefit, would have been reduced under
condition 8.1.

‘C’ is 1, unless the Permanent Disablement for which the
Permanent Disablement Benefit is payable is a Serious Medical
Condition, in which case ‘C’ is 0.75.

Approved Rehabilitation Program
A program certified by your Medical Practitioner to be necessary
for your rehabilitation which is approved by us but excluding any
program providing ‘hospital treatment’ or ‘general treatment’
within the meaning of the Private Health Insurance Act 2007 (Cth)
or any other program which might cause this Policy to cease to
be exempt from any legislation in connection with health
insurance, including the Private Health Insurance Act 2007 (Cth).

Benefit Period
The Benefit Period is shown in your Policy Schedule and is the
longest period over which a Disability Benefit will be paid, for any
one continuous period of Disability. A new Benefit Period starts
from the end of each Waiting Period.

Business
This is the business or professional practice specified in the
application form in which you applied for this Policy and is
the business or practice to which Business Overheads
Cover relates.

Business Overheads Monthly Benefit
If you have the optional Business Overheads Cover, this is the
maximum total monthly expenses of the Business which we have
to reimburse to you and is the amount shown in your Policy
Schedule.

Cover Expiry Date
The Cover Expiry Date for a Life Insured is shown in the Policy
Schedule.

Date Insured From
This is the date, shown on your Policy Schedule, from which your
cover becomes effective.

Day One Condition
A condition which is Cardiomyopathy, Primary Pulmonary
Hypertension, Major Head Trauma, Motor Neurone Disease,
Multiple Sclerosis, Muscular Dystrophy, Paraplegia, Quadriplegia,
Hemiplegia, Diplegia, Tetraplegia, Dementia and Alzheimer’s
Disease, Parkinson’s Disease, Blindness, Loss of Speech, Loss
of Hearing, Chronic Lung Disease or Severe Rheumatoid Arthritis
(as these conditions are defined in condition 9)

Disability and Disabled
The words ‘Disability’ and ‘Disabled’ each mean Total Disability
or Partial Disability.

Extended Cover Expiry Date
This is the Policy Anniversary Date immediately before your
70th birthday.

Guaranteed Agreed Value Policy
You have a ‘Guaranteed Agreed Value Policy’ for the purposes
of the terms and conditions of this Policy if the Monthly Benefit
shown on your Policy Schedule appears as ‘Guaranteed
Agreed Value’.

Home Care Needs
This includes cooking, cleaning, shopping, banking and similar
needs, but does not include the provision of nursing or similar
services.

Immediate Family Member
An Immediate Family Member includes a Spouse, parent,
parent-in-law, sibling and a child.

Income Producing Duty
An Income Producing Duty is a duty of your occupation
which we consider primarily essential to producing your
Monthly Income.

Indemnity Policy
You have an ‘Indemnity Policy’ for the purposes of the terms
and conditions of this Policy if the Monthly Benefit shown on
your Policy Schedule appears as ‘Indemnity’.

Indexation Factor
The Indexation Factor is the most recent annual percentage
change in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) (all groups – eight
capital cities combined) published by the Australian Bureau
of Statistics.

If no CPI is published, we will determine a figure which we
consider most nearly replaces it.

Where the Indexation Factor is applied to Automatic Indexation
(see page 9), it is the last change that occurred three months
before the Policy Anniversary Date.

Injury
An Injury is an accidental bodily injury occurring while this Policy
is in force.

Life Insured
The Life Insured is the person on whose life benefits are payable.
The Life Insured’s name appears on your Policy Schedule.

4

Medical Practitioner
A registered medical practitioner other than you or an Immediate
Family Member or business partner of you or a Life Insured. For
the purpose of this definition, a registered medical practitioner is
a legally qualified medical practitioner whose credentials have
been formally accepted by the Medical Authority of the Australian
state or territory in which he or she practises as a medical
practitioner and who is registered by that Medical Authority to
carry out the duties of a medical practitioner according to the
rules set by the Medical Authority. A Medical Authority is the
registered authority, board, association or body which has the
power to authorise or license a person to practise as a medical
practitioner in the relevant Australian state or territory.

Monthly Benefit
Guaranteed Agreed Value
If you have a Guaranteed Agreed Value Policy, the Monthly
Benefit is the amount shown in your Policy Schedule as
increased or decreased in accordance with the conditions of this
Policy.

Where benefits are payable for part of a month, the Monthly
Benefit is divided by 30 to arrive at a daily benefit.

Agreed Value or Indemnity
If you have an Agreed Value Policy or an Indemnity Policy, the
Monthly Benefit is the lesser of the following amounts:

•	 the amount shown in your Policy Schedule as increased or
decreased in accordance with the conditions of this Policy

•	 75% of your Pre-Disability Income but, if you have an Agreed

Value Policy, this amount will only apply if your average
Monthly Income in the twelve months before you applied
for your present level of cover was insufficient for us to have
accepted you for that level of cover.

Where benefits are payable for part of a month, the Monthly
Benefit is divided by 30 to arrive at a daily benefit.

Boosted benefit for Serious Medical Condition
Total Disability
Despite the above, if:

•	 we agree to pay a claim for Total Disability under this

Policy and

•	 your Total Disability is such that we are satisfied you also meet

the definition of Serious Medical Condition

the Monthly Benefit is, for the purposes of calculating the Total
Disability Benefit payable, the following amount:

X times (1+1/3)

where X is the amount of Monthly Benefit determined above
under ‘Guaranteed Agreed Value’ or ‘Agreed Value or Indemnity’,
as applicable.

To avoid doubt, this calculation of the Monthly Benefit only
applies for the purpose of calculating the Total Disability Benefit
and does not apply for the purpose of calculating the Permanent
Disablement Benefit, the Super Continuance Monthly Benefit or
any other benefit under this Policy.

Where benefits are payable for part of a month, the Monthly
Benefit is divided by 30 to arrive at a daily benefit.

Monthly Income
If you are self-employed, a working director or partner in a
partnership, your Monthly Income is the monthly income
generated by the Business or practice directly due to your
personal exertion or activities excluding superannuation
contributions, less your monthly share of business expenses.

For the purpose of this definition, business expenses means
business expenses which are necessarily and regularly incurred
and are reasonably similar in amount and nature to other
expenses incurred in the last twelve months. If an expense
exceeds another expense incurred in the last twelve months by
more than 20%, then it will not be considered reasonably similar
in amount to the other expense. If a business expense incurred in
a month relates, or is referable, to a period of two or more
months, then we will only treat the proportion of the business
expense we consider appropriate as being incurred in that
month. If a business expense relates, or is referable, to a twelve
month period that expense must be reconciled against the
relevant financial returns or statements recording that expense
for the twelve month period and, if necessary, an adjustment of
benefits paid by us under this Policy will be made between you
and us to reflect the business expense actually incurred for a
month. If there has been an overpayment of benefits by us, you
must refund to us the overpayment. If there has been an
underpayment of benefits by us, we must pay to you the shortfall.

If you are not self-employed, a working director or partner in a
partnership, your Monthly Income is the total monthly value of
remuneration paid by your employer including salary, fees,
commission, bonuses, regular overtime and fringe benefits,
excluding superannuation contributions. Where included,
bonuses will be averaged over the preceding three years.

Despite the above:

•	 If you have the Super Continuance Option, Monthly Income will
include 1/12th of the amount by which total superannuation
contributions made for your benefit by you or your employer
exceed 15% of your annual income or remuneration, as
applicable and as described above, in the relevant twelve
month period.

•	 If you do not have the Super Continuance Option and the

words ‘Monthly Income includes superannuation’ appear in
your Policy Schedule, Monthly Income will include 1/12th of
the total superannuation contributions made by you for your
benefit in the relevant twelve month period.

Occupation Group
Your Occupation Group is the group that your occupation falls
into according to our standard occupation categories. Your
Occupation Group at the time you obtained your cover is shown
in the Policy Schedule.

Partial Disability and Partially Disabled
The words Partial Disability and Partially Disabled each mean
that, because of Sickness or Injury, you are unable to work in
your own occupation at full capacity and:

•	 you are not Totally Disabled and you are working in your

own occupation in a reduced capacity, or working in another
occupation

5

Policy conditions

•	 your Monthly Income is less than your Pre-Disability

Income and

•	 you are under Regular Medical Care.

If you become unemployed or go on leave without pay while a
Partial Disability Benefit is payable, then Partial Disability and
Partially Disabled means that, due to Sickness or Injury:

•	 you are not Totally Disabled and are only capable of working
in your own occupation in a reduced capacity, or working in
another occupation

•	 your Monthly Income would be less than your Pre-Disability

Income and

•	 you are under Regular Medical Care.

Permanent Disablement
Permanent Disablement means that:

Policy Anniversary Date
The date on which your Policy’s annual review will take place and
from which your premiums are calculated.

The Policy Anniversary Date will fall on each anniversary of the
Date Insured From shown in the Policy Schedule.

Pre-Disability Income
Agreed Value or Guaranteed Agreed Value
If you have an Agreed Value Policy or Guaranteed Agreed Value
Policy, your Pre-Disability Income is the larger of the following
amounts:

•	 your highest average Monthly Income in any consecutive

twelve month period in the three years immediately before your
most recent period of Disability (or, where applicable, before
the Injury or condition which resulted in the Specific Injuries
Benefit, Crisis Benefit or Death Benefit becoming payable)

•	 the Life Insured has suffered a Work Ending Condition

(as defined in condition 9) or

•	 the average Monthly Income you received during the twelve
months before you applied for your present level of cover.

•	 the Life Insured has suffered a Serious Medical Condition

or

•	 the Life Insured has suffered a Serious Medical Condition

or

•	 the Life Insured has suffered Loss of Limbs or Sight

(as defined in condition 9)

or

•	 the Life Insured has suffered Loss of Independent Existence

(as defined in condition 9).

Permanently Disabled has a corresponding meaning.

Permanent Disablement Benefit
This benefit only applies where the words ‘Permanent
Disablement Cover Option’ appear under the ‘Additional Options’
section of your Policy Schedule.

The Permanent Disablement Benefit is the lesser of the following
amounts:

•	 $3,000,000

•	 the amount which is A x the Annualised Monthly Benefit,

where ‘A’ is:

 –   15, if the Life Insured's Relevant Age is less than 40 years

 –   13, if the Life Insured's Relevant Age is 40 years or more but

less than 45 years

 –   11, if the Life Insured's Relevant Age is 45 years or more but

less than 50 years

 –   9, if the Life Insured's Relevant Age is 50 years or more but

less than 56 years

 –   65 minus the Life Insured's Relevant Age, if the Life

Insured's Relevant Age is more than 55 years.

If the lesser of the above amounts is a nil or negative amount, the
Permanent Disablement Benefit is nil.

If you continue to receive benefits for more than twelve months,
this figure will be increased by the Indexation Factor every twelve
months on the anniversary of the date that benefits started. If
there is an indexed increase, the most recent indexed amount will
be the minimum Pre-Disability Income for future claims.

Indemnity
If you have an Indemnity Policy, your Pre-Disability Income is the
average Monthly Income you received during the twelve months
immediately before your most recent period of Disability (or,
where applicable, before the Injury or condition which resulted in
the Specific Injuries Benefit, Crisis Benefit or Death Benefit
becoming payable). If, however, you have been on unpaid
employer-approved maternity leave, paternity leave or study leave
that commenced at any time in the twelve months immediately
before your most recent period of Disability (or, where applicable,
before the Injury or condition which resulted in the Specific
Injuries Benefit, Crisis Benefit or Death Benefit becoming
payable), your Pre-Disability Income is the average Monthly
Income you received during the twelve months immediately
before your unpaid leave commenced. If, however, you return to
work from leave on a reduced income, we will reduce your
average Monthly Income by the same proportion by which your
income decreased compared to what it was immediately before
you commenced leave.

If you continue to receive benefits for more than twelve
months, this figure will be increased by the Indexation Factor
every twelve months on the anniversary of the date that
benefits started.

Premium Due Date
Where premiums are payable annually in advance, they are due
on the Date Insured From and on each Policy Anniversary Date.
Each of these dates is a Premium Due Date.

Premiums can also be paid in monthly, quarterly or half-yearly
instalments by a method approved by us. If we agree to accept
the premium in instalments, the date that an instalment is due to
be paid is a Premium Due Date.

6

Regular Medical Care
Regular Medical Care means the person is under the regular
treatment, and/or following the advice, of a Medical Practitioner
with whom the person has personally consulted, including:

•	 following all reasonable measures as advised by the person’s
treating Medical Practitioner to avert or minimise any injury or
sickness and

•	 undergoing review by the treating Medical Practitioner on
at least a monthly basis, unless the Medical Practitioner
reasonably specifies otherwise.

Relevant Age
If the Permanent Disablement for which the Permanent
Disablement Benefit is claimed is Serious Medical Condition,
Loss of Limbs or Sight or Loss of Independent Existence, the
Relevant Age is the age in years the Life Insured will reach on his
or her next birthday after the Permanent Disablement Benefit
Payment Date.

If the Permanent Disablement for which the Permanent
Disablement Benefit is claimed is a Work Ending Condition, the
Relevant Age is the age in years the Life Insured will reach on his
or her next birthday after the later of the following dates:

•	 the Permanent Disablement Benefit Payment Date

•	 the date which is X months after the first day of the period of
three consecutive months which the Life Insured satisfied in
order to meet the definition of Work Ending Condition.

For the purpose of this definition:

•	 X is the number of months in the waiting period applying to the

Life Insured as set out in the Policy Schedule

•	 the Permanent Disablement Benefit Payment Date is the date
the Permanent Disablement Benefit first becomes payable
in respect of the Life Insured, not being a date earlier than
the date on which we are satisfied that the Life Insured is
Permanently Disabled and that you have made the election
under condition 4.7.

Serious Medical Condition
Serious Medical Condition means the Life Insured:

•	 has been absent from active employment as a result of a Day

One Condition

•	 continues to be incapacitated to such an extent that the Life
Insured will be unlikely to ever again engage in the full-time
gainful occupation he or she was engaged in immediately prior
to Disability or Permanent Disablement, as applicable, and

•	 is under the regular treatment, and following the advice, of a

Medical Practitioner.

If the Life Insured has been engaged in full-time domestic duties
or child rearing at the time of the Sickness or Injury that causes
their Disability or Permanent Disablement, as applicable, then
Serious Medical Condition means the Life Insured:

•	 has been unable to perform domestic duties or child rearing,

and has been confined to the home, due to a Day One
Condition

•	 continues to be so incapacitated to the extent that they are

unable to engage in (whether or not for reward) any occupation
for which they are reasonably suited by education, training or
experience and is likely to be so disabled for life and

•	 is under the regular treatment, and following the advice, of a

Medical Practitioner.

Sickness
This is an illness or disease that becomes apparent while this
Policy is in force.

Spouse
A spouse of a person includes:

•	 another person (whether of the same or a different sex) with
whom the person is in a relationship that is registered under
a law of a State or Territory prescribed for the purposes of
section 22B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 (Cth) as a kind
of relationship prescribed for the purposes of that section and

•	 another person who, although not legally married to the

person, lives with the person on a genuine domestic basis in
a relationship as a couple.

Super Continuance Monthly Benefit
This benefit only applies where the words ‘Super Continuance
Option’ appear under the ‘Additional Options’ section of your
Policy Schedule.

The Super Continuance Monthly Benefit is the lesser of the
following amounts:

•	 the amount shown in your Policy Schedule as increased or
decreased in accordance with the conditions of this Policy

•	 1/12th of the amount of total superannuation contributions
made for your benefit by you or your employer in the twelve
months immediately before your most recent period of
Disability (or, where applicable, before the Injury or condition
which resulted in the Specific Injuries Benefit, Crisis Benefit or
Death Benefit becoming payable).

Where benefits are payable for part of a month, the Super
Continuance Monthly Benefit is divided by 30 to arrive at a daily
benefit.

Total Disability and Totally Disabled
The words Total Disability and Totally Disabled each mean that,
because of Sickness or Injury, you are:

•	 unable to perform an Income Producing Duty of your

occupation

•	 under Regular Medical Care and

•	 not working.

If:

•	 your Occupation Group appears as 'X' on your Policy

Schedule and

•	 the Benefit Period which applies to you is greater than two

years and

•	 you have been Totally Disabled for two years,

the definition of Total Disability and Totally Disabled will change to
mean that, due to Sickness or Injury, you are:

•	 unable to perform any occupation for which you are

reasonably suited by education, training or experience and

•	 under Regular Medical Care and

•	 not working.

7

Subject to the qualification set out below under Qualifying Period,
the Waiting Period begins on the date:

•	 that you first consult a Medical Practitioner about the condition

that is causing the Total or Partial Disability or

•	 when you first cease work, or work in a reduced capacity, due
to the condition that is causing the Total or Partial Disability,
as long as it is not more than seven days before you first
consulted a Medical Practitioner about that condition and you
provide reasonable medical evidence about when the Total or
Partial Disability began.

For all Occupation Groups
If your Waiting Period is one month or less, you can return to
work at full capacity, but if you do so, the Waiting Period will be
extended by the number of days worked. However, if you return
to work at full capacity for more than five consecutive days, the
Waiting Period will start again.

If your Waiting Period is more than one month, you can return to
work at full capacity, but if you do so, the Waiting Period will be
extended by the number of days worked. However, if you return
to work at full capacity for more than ten consecutive days, the
Waiting Period will start again.

We will, at your request, waive the Waiting Period in respect of a
claim for a Disability benefit (but not a Business Overheads Cover
Benefit) if your Waiting Period is three months or less and the
Sickness or Injury which causes your Disability is Loss of Limbs
or Sight, Loss of Independent Existence or a Serious Medical
Condition. However, we will only waive the Waiting Period under
this condition once.

Qualifying Period
If the Sickness or Injury from which you suffer is directly or
indirectly related to pregnancy, childbirth or miscarriage (including
post-natal depression), the Waiting Period will not begin any
earlier than the last day of the Qualifying Period. For this purpose,
the Qualifying Period is a three month period for which you have
been continuously Totally Disabled or Partially Disabled from the
relevant Sickness or Injury.

If you are not Totally Disabled or Partially Disabled from the
relevant Sickness or Injury for the Qualifying Period, the Waiting
Period will not begin and you will not be entitled to a benefit
under this Policy for the Sickness or Injury.

Policy conditions

If:

•	 your Occupation Group appears as ‘A’ on your Policy

Schedule

•	 you are an eligible commercial airline pilot or flight engineer

within that Occupation Group and

•	 you are aged 55 or more

then Total Disability and Totally Disabled means that because of
Sickness or Injury you are:

•	 unable to perform any occupation for which you are

reasonably suited by education, training or experience

•	 under Regular Medical Care and

•	 not working.

If you have been unemployed or on maternity, paternity or long
service leave for twelve months or more immediately preceding a
claim, then Total Disability and Totally Disabled means that,
because of Sickness or Injury, you are:

•	 unable to perform any occupation for which you are

reasonably suited by education, training or experience

•	 under Regular Medical Care and

•	 not working.

If you are on sabbatical leave, this will not be considered as
unemployment.

The words Total Disability and Totally Disabled have a different
meaning for the purpose of condition 5 of this Policy. For the
definition of these words in the context of condition 5, see ‘What
is Total Disability?’ on page 22.

Waiting Period
This is the period set out in the Policy Schedule for which you
have to be Totally or Partially Disabled from the same Sickness or
Injury before you can qualify for a Disability Benefit or a Business
Overheads Cover benefit, subject to the following:

If your Occupation Group is ‘A’, ‘G’, ‘C’, ‘L’, 'M' or ‘X’
You must be Totally Disabled for at least 14 out of the first 19
consecutive days of the Waiting Period to qualify for a Total
Disability Benefit, a Partial Disability Benefit or a Business
Overheads Cover Benefit (if applicable).

Subject to the qualification set out below under Qualifying Period,
the Waiting Period begins on the date:

•	 that you first consult a Medical Practitioner about the condition

that is causing the Total Disability or

•	 when you first cease work due to the condition that is causing
the Total Disability, as long as it is not more than seven days
before you first consulted a Medical Practitioner about that
condition and you provide reasonable medical evidence about
when the Total Disability began.

If your Occupation Group is ‘S’, ‘K’, ‘J’ or ‘P’
You must be Partially Disabled or Totally Disabled for at least 14
out of the first 19 consecutive days of the Waiting Period to
qualify for a Partial Disability Benefit, a Total Disability Benefit or a
Business Overheads Cover Benefit (if applicable).

8

3. Benefits
3.1 Total Disability Benefit
If you are Totally Disabled, we will pay the Total Disability Benefit,
which is the sum of the Monthly Benefit and any Super
Continuance Monthly Benefit.

The Total Disability Benefit is payable to you, but that part of the
benefit which comprises any Super Continuance Monthly Benefit
will be paid to a superannuation plan in accordance with
condition 4.3 of this Policy.

When does the benefit start?
We will only start paying the Total Disability Benefit if Total
Disability as a result of the same Sickness or Injury continues
after the Waiting Period. The Total Disability Benefit starts to
accrue from the first day after the Waiting Period has ended.

How long will we pay the benefit?
The Total Disability Benefit will end when the first of the following
events occurs:

•	 you are no longer Totally Disabled

•	 you come to the end of the Benefit Period

•	 if the TTD Cover Option applies, you suffer Permanent

Disablement

•	 if the Permanent Disablement Cover Option applies, you suffer
Permanent Disablement and a Permanent Disablement Benefit
becomes payable

•	 the termination of this Policy

•	 the Cover Expiry Date is reached or

•	 your death.

When will we pay the benefit?
We will pay the Total Disability Benefit in the month immediately
following the month during which you became entitled to it, i.e.
monthly in arrears.

3.2 Partial Disability Benefit
If you are Partially Disabled, we will pay the Partial Disability
Benefit as determined below.

When does the benefit start?
We will only start paying the Partial Disability Benefit if you are
Partially Disabled as a result of the same Sickness or Injury
beyond the Waiting Period. The Partial Disability Benefit starts to
accrue from the first day after the Waiting Period has ended.

How long will we pay the benefit?
The Partial Disability Benefit will end when the first of the
following events occurs:

•	 you are no longer Partially Disabled

•	 you come to the end of the Benefit Period

•	 if the TTD Cover Option applies, you suffer Permanent

Disablement

•	 if the Permanent Disablement Cover Option applies, you suffer
Permanent Disablement and a Permanent Disablement Benefit
becomes payable

•	 where your Occupation Group is ‘A’ or 'X', the date two years

after the date your Partial Disability Benefit commenced

•	 the termination of this Policy

•	 the Cover Expiry Date is reached or

•	 your death.

A Partial Disability Benefit will not be paid in respect of any period
of Partial Disability after the Cover Expiry Date.

When will we pay the benefit?
We will pay the Partial Disability Benefit in the month immediately
following the month during which you became entitled to it, i.e.
monthly in arrears.

What benefit will be paid?
The Partial Disability Benefit we pay will be a proportion of the
total of the Monthly Benefit and any Super Continuance Monthly
Benefit arrived at according to the following formula:

(A – B)

A

x

(Monthly Benefit + any Super

Continuance Monthly Benefit)

where ‘A’ is your Pre-Disability Income, and ‘B’ is your Monthly
Income for the month for which Partial Disability is claimed.

If you become unemployed or go on leave without pay while a
Partial Disability Benefit is payable, the maximum Partial Disability
Benefit we will pay is 75% of the total of the Monthly Benefit and
any Super Continuance Monthly Benefit.

The Partial Disability Benefit is payable to you, but that part of the
benefit which comprises the portion of any Super Continuance
Monthly Benefit will be paid to a superannuation plan in
accordance with condition 4.3 of this Policy.

If:

•	 you have been Totally Disabled for at least the Waiting Period

and then return to work on a partial basis and

•	 as a result of your Disability, your Monthly Income is 20% or
less of your Pre-Disability Income or you are working for ten
hours or less per week

we will pay the Total Disability Benefit instead of the Partial
Disability Benefit you are entitled to for up to six months while we
are satisfied that you remain Partially Disabled and, as a result of
the Disability, earn a Monthly Income which is 20% or less of your
Pre-Disability Income or work for ten hours or less per week.

If, due to the same or a related Sickness or Injury, you become
Totally Disabled while the Partial Disability Benefit is payable, the
Partial Disability Benefit ceases and the Total Disability Benefit
starts to accrue.

3.3 Automatic Indexation
On each Policy Anniversary Date, we will increase the Monthly
Benefit and any Super Continuance Monthly Benefit, by the
greater of the Indexation Factor and 3%, unless you request us
not to in writing.

An indexed increase under this condition will not become
effective while you are receiving benefits. Automatic Indexation
increases will only become effective once benefit payments have
ceased. However, if you have the Increasing Claim Option (see
page 19) under this Policy, the Monthly Benefit and any Super
Continuance Monthly Benefit may be increased in accordance
with condition 4.1.

9

Policy conditions

Your premium will be increased to take into account the increase
in the Monthly Benefit and any Super Continuance Monthly
Benefit.

3.4 Recurrent Disability Benefit
If you have returned to work on a full-time basis:

Event

Paraplegia

Quadriplegia

Payment period

60 months*

60 months*

24 months

24 months

•	 after receiving a Total Disability Benefit, Partial Disability

Benefit or Specific Injuries Benefit or

•	 after six months after receiving a Crisis Benefit or

•	 if the Specific Injuries Benefit is paid as a lump sum, after

the payment period over which the benefit would have been
payable had it been paid as a monthly benefit rather than as a
lump sum

but suffer a recurrence of the same or a related condition and it
results in Disability within twelve months from the date you were
last on claim (which, for the purposes, of a Crisis Benefit, is the
date six months after the benefit was paid and, for a lump sum
Specific Injuries Benefit, is the last day of the relevant payment
period referred to above) but before the Cover Expiry Date, we
will waive the Waiting Period and treat the Disability as a
continuation of the original claim. However, for this benefit to
apply where your Benefit Period is two or five years, the Disability
must result within six months from the date you were last on
claim but before the Cover Expiry Date.

3.5 Elective surgery
You will not lose your entitlement to claim that you are Disabled
under this Policy because your Disability results from agreeing to
voluntarily undergo medical treatment such as:

•	 cosmetic or other elective surgery or

Total and permanent loss of use of:

Both hands or both feet or sight in
both eyes

One hand and one foot

One hand and sight in one eye

24 months

One foot and sight in one eye

One arm or one leg

One hand or one foot or sight in
one eye

Thumb and index finger from the
same hand

24 months

18 months

12 months

6 months

Fracture requiring plaster cast or other immobilising device of
the following bones:

Thigh

Pelvis (except coccyx)

Skull (except bones of the face or
nose)

3 months

3 months

2 months

•	 undergoing surgery to transplant your body organs to the

Arm, between elbow and shoulder

2 months

body of another person

unless you have the treatment or surgery within six months of the
cover commencing or the date this Policy was last reinstated, in
which case we will not pay a claim for the resulting Disability.

3.6 Specific Injuries Benefit
This benefit is only applicable if your Waiting Period is three
months or less.

The Specific Injuries Benefit will be payable if, as the result of an
Injury, you suffer one of the events listed below before the Cover
Expiry Date. The benefit will be payable even if you are working
and will be paid for up to the payment period shown.

Shoulder blade

Leg (above the foot)

Kneecap

Elbow

Collarbone

Forearm, between wrist and
elbow (shaft)

2 months

2 months

2 months

2 months

1.5 months

1.5 months

* If your Benefit Period is two years, the maximum payment period is
  24 months.

When will we pay the benefit?
The Specific Injuries Benefit starts from the date that the
event occurs and is paid monthly in advance. There is no
Waiting Period.

When does the benefit end?
The Specific Injuries Benefit will end on the first of:

•	 the completion of the payment period

•	 the Cover Expiry Date

•	 if the TTD Cover Option applies, you suffer Permanent

Disablement

•	 the termination of this Policy

10

•	 if the Permanent Disablement Cover Option applies, you suffer
Permanent Disablement and a Permanent Disablement Benefit
becomes payable or

•	 your death.

A Specific Injuries Benefit will not be paid in respect of any period
after the Cover Expiry Date.

What benefit will be paid?
The Monthly Benefit and any Super Continuance Monthly Benefit
will be paid. We will pay that part of the Specific Injuries Benefit
which comprises any Super Continuance Monthly Benefit to a
superannuation plan in accordance with condition 4.3 of this
Policy. If one Injury causes more than one of the listed events, we
will pay only for the event with the longest payment period.

If you are Disabled at the end of the payment period, then a
Disability Benefit will be paid subject to the conditions of this
Policy.

Lump Sum Option
If the Specific Injuries Benefit becomes payable for an event for
which the payment period is 24 months or less, you can choose
to receive that benefit as a lump sum instead of the monthly
payments provided for above. If you require a lump sum, you
must notify us of this in writing before we start paying monthly
benefits. The option to receive a lump sum is not available after
we start paying monthly benefits.

If you choose a lump sum:

•	 the lump sum we pay will be the amount which equals the
number of months in the payment period for the relevant
event times the total of the Monthly Benefit and any Super
Continuance Monthly Benefit

•	 we will pay that part of the lump sum which comprises any

Super Continuance Monthly Benefit to a superannuation plan
in accordance with condition 4.3 of this Policy

•	 for an event for which the payment period is 18 months,

you can choose to receive one third of the lump sum after 6
months and the remaining two thirds after 18 months or vice
versa

•	 for an event for which the payment period is 24 months,

you can choose to receive one half of the lump sum after 12
months and the other half after 24 months

•	 and you decide to receive it in instalments as provided for
above, we will not pay any instalment outstanding on
your death.

3.7 Crisis Benefit
This benefit is only applicable if your Waiting Period is three
months or less. The benefit will be payable even if you are
working.

The Crisis Benefit will be payable if, before the Cover Expiry Date,
you suffer one of the following conditions (which are defined on
pages 29 to 31):

Crisis Benefit conditions

✔  Heart Attack

✔  Out of Hospital Cardiac Arrest

✔  Coronary Artery Disease Requiring By-pass Surgery

✔  Repair and Replacement of a Heart Valve

✔  Surgery of the Aorta

✔  Cardiomyopathy

✔  Primary Pulmonary Hypertension

✔  Open Heart Surgery

✔  Stroke

✔  Major Head Trauma

✔  Multiple Sclerosis

✔  Hemiplegia

✔  Diplegia

✔  Cancer

✔  Chronic Kidney Failure

✔  Major Organ or Bone Marrow Transplant

✔  Severe Burns

✔  Loss of Independent Existence

What benefit will be paid?
A lump sum amount equal to six times the total Monthly Benefit
(and any Super Continuance Monthly Benefit) will
be paid.

We will pay that part of the Crisis Benefit which comprises
any Super Continuance Monthly Benefit to a superannuation plan
in accordance with condition 4.3 of this Policy. The Crisis Benefit
will only be paid once in any consecutive twelve
month period.

However, if you are Disabled or you suffer Permanent
Disablement at the end of a six month period, after you were
entitled to be paid the Crisis Benefit, then a Disability Benefit or
Permanent Disablement Benefit will be paid subject to the
conditions of this Policy.

For the purpose of this Policy, the payment period in respect of
the Crisis Benefit shall be regarded as six months.

3.8 Accommodation Benefit
The Accommodation Benefit will be payable if you become Totally
Disabled before the Cover Expiry Date and under medical advice
remain more than 100 kilometres from your place of residence, or
you are Totally Disabled before the Cover Expiry Date and on the
advice of a Medical Practitioner you travel to a place more than
100 kilometres from your place of residence, and:

11

Policy conditions

•	 you are confined to bed and

•	 an Immediate Family Member is accommodated near to you

and has to stay away from home.

An Accommodation Benefit will not be paid in respect of any
period of Total Disability after the Cover Expiry Date.

What benefit will be paid?
$350 a day will be paid for up to 30 days in any twelve
month period for each day you qualify for the
Accommodation Benefit.

3.9 Family Support Benefit
The Family Support Benefit will be payable if, due to Total
Disability that continues beyond the end of the Waiting Period,
you are totally dependent upon an Immediate Family Member for
your essential everyday Home Care Needs to enable you to live at
home, and as a result that Immediate Family Member’s income is
reduced.

What benefit will be paid?
The lesser of the following will be paid to you each month for a
maximum of three months:

•	 the reduction in the pre-tax Monthly Income of the Immediate
Family Member net of their expenses incurred in earning that
income, compared with the average pre-tax Monthly Income
(net of expenses incurred in earning that income) for the twelve
months before they began caring for you or

•	 75% of the total of the Monthly Benefit and any Super

Continuance Monthly Benefit.

When will we pay the benefit?
The Family Support Benefit starts to accrue from the first day you
qualify for the benefit after the Waiting Period has ended and is
paid monthly in arrears. This benefit will only be paid while we are
paying the Total Disability Benefit.

3.10 Home Care Benefit
The Home Care Benefit will be payable if, after the Waiting Period
has ended, you are still Totally Disabled and due to the condition
that caused that Disability you are:

•	 confined to or near a bed other than in a hospital or a similar

institution that provides nursing care and

•	 totally dependent on a paid professional housekeeper, other

than an Immediate Family Member, for your essential everyday
Home Care Needs.

What benefit will be paid?
The lesser of $150 a day or 100% of the total of the Monthly
Benefit and any Super Continuance Monthly Benefit will be paid
to you for a maximum of six months.

When will we pay the benefit?
The Home Care Benefit starts to accrue from the first day you
qualify for the benefit after the Waiting Period has ended and is
paid monthly in arrears. This benefit will only be paid while we are
paying the Total Disability Benefit in respect of a period before the
Cover Expiry Date.

When does the benefit end?
The Home Care Benefit will end on the first of:

•	 when you are no longer Totally Disabled

•	 when you no longer satisfy the conditions which resulted in the

Home Care Benefit becoming payable

•	 the benefit has been paid for six months

•	 the Cover Expiry Date

•	 if the TTD Cover Option applies, you suffer Permanent

Disablement

•	 if the Permanent Disablement Cover Option applies, you suffer
Permanent Disablement and a Permanent Disablement Benefit
becomes payable

When does the benefit end?
The Family Support Benefit will end on the first of:

•	 when you are no longer Totally Disabled

•	 the benefit has been paid for three months

•	 the Cover Expiry Date

•	 if the TTD Cover Option applies, you suffer Permanent

Disablement

•	 if the Permanent Disablement Cover Option applies, you suffer
Permanent Disablement and a Permanent Disablement Benefit
becomes payable

•	 the termination of this Policy

•	 the end of the Benefit Period or

•	 your death.

A Family Support Benefit will not be paid in respect of any period
of Total Disability after the Cover Expiry Date.

•	 the termination of this Policy

•	 the end of the Benefit Period or

•	 your death.

A Home Care Benefit will not be paid in respect of any period of
Total Disability after the Cover Expiry Date.

3.11 Rehabilitation Benefit
The Rehabilitation Benefit will be payable if you are Totally
Disabled before the Cover Expiry Date and you participate in a
rehabilitation program approved by us.

What benefit will be paid?
The Monthly Benefit and any Super Continuance Monthly Benefit
will be paid to you for a maximum of twelve months. This is paid
in addition to any other benefit.

When will we pay the benefit?
The Rehabilitation Benefit starts to accrue from the date you first
participate in the program and is paid monthly in arrears. This
benefit will only be paid while we are paying the Total Disability
Benefit in respect of a period before the Cover Expiry Date.

12

When does the benefit end?
The Rehabilitation Benefit will end on the first of:

•	 when you are no longer Totally Disabled

•	 when the benefit has been paid for twelve months

•	 you cease to actively participate in the Approved Rehabilitation

Program

•	 the Cover Expiry Date

•	 if the TTD Cover Option applies, you suffer Permanent

Disablement

•	 if the Permanent Disablement Cover Option applies, you suffer
Permanent Disablement and a Permanent Disablement Benefit
becomes payable

•	 the termination of this Policy

•	 the end of the Benefit Period or

•	 your death.

A Rehabilitation Benefit will not be paid in respect of any period of
Total Disability after the Cover Expiry Date.

3.12 Rehabilitation Expenses Benefit
When you have been Totally Disabled and incur rehabilitation
expenses as a direct result of:

•	 your participation in an Approved Rehabilitation Program or

•	 engaging in or attempting to engage in an occupation

the expenses you incur will be reimbursed to you less amounts
that are reimbursed elsewhere.

Prior approval of the expenditure is required by us.

Some examples of rehabilitation expenses covered by this benefit
are the cost of travelling expenses to attend an Approved
Rehabilitation Program or the cost of structural changes to your
home or office. The cost of an Approved Rehabilitation Program
is not a rehabilitation expense covered by this benefit.

What benefit will be paid?
A maximum of nine times the total of the Monthly Benefit and any
Super Continuance Monthly Benefit.

When will we pay the benefit?
The Rehabilitation Expenses Benefit starts to accrue when the
rehabilitation expenses are incurred and is paid monthly in
arrears. This benefit will only be paid while we are paying the Total
Disability Benefit in respect of a period before the Cover Expiry
Date.

When does the benefit end?
The Rehabilitation Expenses Benefit will end on the first of:

•	 when payments equal six times the total of the Monthly Benefit

and any Super Continuance Monthly Benefit

•	 the end of the Benefit Period

•	 you are no longer Totally Disabled

•	 if the TTD Cover Option applies, you suffer Permanent

Disablement

•	 if the Permanent Disablement Cover Option applies, you suffer
Permanent Disablement and a Permanent Disablement Benefit
becomes payable

•	 the termination of this Policy

•	 the Cover Expiry Date or

•	 your death.

A Rehabilitation Expenses Benefit will not be paid in respect of
any period of Total Disability after the Cover Expiry Date.

3.13 Bed Confinement Benefit
We will pay a Bed Confinement Benefit during the Waiting Period
if:

•	 you are unable to perform at least one Income Producing Duty
of your occupation due to Sickness or Injury which confines
you to bed

•	 you have been so confined continuously for at least three days

and

•	 you are certified by a Medical Practitioner to require the

continuous care of a registered nurse.

What benefit will be paid?
An amount equal to 1/30th of the total of the Monthly Benefit and
any Super Continuance Monthly Benefit will be paid for each day
(including the first three days) you continue to meet this definition
for up to 90 days, but not beyond the end of the Waiting Period.
The benefit is paid monthly in arrears.

We will pay that part of the Bed Confinement Benefit which
comprises any Super Continuance Monthly Benefit to a
superannuation plan in accordance with condition 4.3 of this
Policy. A Bed Confinement Benefit will not be paid in respect of
any period after the Cover Expiry Date.

3.14 Death Benefit
If you die before the Cover Expiry Date, we will pay a Death
Benefit equal to the lesser of the following amounts:

•	 four times the total of the Monthly Benefit and any Super

Continuance Monthly Benefit

•	 $75,000.

The Death Benefit will be paid to the surviving Policy Owner(s) or,
if none, to your estate.

3.15 Transportation Benefit
The Transportation Benefit of $200 will be payable if, as the result
of a condition that causes you Total Disability before the Cover
Expiry Date, you must be transported to a hospital within
Australia in an emergency.

3.16 Overseas Assist Benefit
The Overseas Assist Benefit will be payable if, before the Cover
Expiry Date, you are Totally Disabled for at least a month while
you are outside Australia and decide to return to Australia
because of continuing Total Disability.

What benefit will be paid?
We will reimburse you the cost of your return economy airfare
back to Australia by the most direct route, including connecting
flights, less amounts that are reimbursed elsewhere, up to a
maximum of three times the total of the Monthly Benefit and any
Super Continuance Monthly Benefit.

13

Policy conditions

3.17 Reward Cover Benefit
On the third anniversary of the date on which you became a Life
Insured under this Policy (the third anniversary), we will provide
you at no charge with Accidental Death Cover (Accident Cover) of
$50,000. We will then increase the Accident Cover by $10,000 on
each anniversary following the third anniversary until your
Accident Cover reaches $100,000 in total. Accident Cover is
provided on the terms and conditions set out in this condition.
The Accident Cover commences on the third anniversary and
ends on the date your cover ceases under this Policy in
accordance with condition 8.6.

We will pay a benefit under this Accident Cover if you die as a
result of an Accident and the death occurs within 90 days of the
Accident but prior to the date your cover ceases under this Policy
in accordance with condition 8.6. The benefit we pay is the
amount of the Accident Cover which applies as at the date of
your death. If, however, at the date of your death you (being a
Policy Owner and Life Insured under this Policy) have a Total Care
Plan policy (or a future version of that policy) in place with us,
either alone or jointly, we will increase the benefit we pay under
Accident Cover by 100%.

For the purposes of this Accident Cover, ‘Accident’ means bodily
injury caused solely and directly by accidental and visible means,
independent of any other cause.

A benefit will not be paid under this Accident Cover if death is
caused directly or indirectly by:

•	 suicide or any attempt at suicide

•	 self-inflicted injury or infection

•	 the taking of drugs other than prescribed by a Medical

Practitioner

•	 the taking of alcohol

•	 participation in criminal activity or

•	 an act of war (whether declared or not).

If this Policy is reinstated in accordance with condition 6.1 of this
Policy, we will, for the purposes of applying this condition, treat
the reinstated Policy as a continuation of the original Policy on the
following basis:

•	 if it has already commenced, Accident Cover will only

recommence from the date of reinstatement and no benefit will
be payable under the Accident Cover for death which occurs
while the Policy was not in force or for death which results
from an Accident that occurred while the Policy was not in
force

•	 for the avoidance of doubt, the period during which your Policy

was not in force will be taken into account in determining
whether an anniversary has occurred and the amount of your
Accident Cover.

3.18 Medical Professionals Benefit
This benefit:

•	 only applies to you if, at the time your cover starts:

i)   your Occupation Group is ‘K’ or you are an anaesthetist,
dental prosthetist, dermatologist, gastroenterologist,
gynaecologist, haematologist, nephrologist, neurologist,
oncologist, ophthalmologist, orthodontist, paediatrician,
pathologist (degree qualified), radiologist (medical degree
qualified) or rheumatologist and

ii)   you are registered to practise your medical profession and
your registration is regulated by an Act of Parliament of a
state or territory of the Commonwealth of Australia.

If you satisfy these requirements you are regarded as
practising a ‘medical profession’ for the purposes of this
condition 3.18.

•	 only applies for as long as you continue to satisfy the

requirements set out in points i) and ii) of the first bullet point
and the following conditions:

 –   you have, in practising your medical profession, been
performing or assisting in exposure-prone medical
procedures monthly on average or more frequently

 –   you have, in practising your medical profession, been

making reasonable efforts to comply with relevant and
readily available current state and Commonwealth
departmental guidelines dealing with infection of health care
workers.

This benefit will be payable if, for the first time after your cover
starts but before the Cover Expiry Date, you contract a persistent
infection of:

•	 the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)

•	 Hepatitis B or

•	 Hepatitis C

and, as a result of that infection, you cease to perform or assist in
exposure-prone medical procedures in compliance with both
your demonstrable professional obligations to the public and the
demonstrable policies of the registered authority, board,
association or body which authorises or licenses you to practise
your medical profession.

This benefit will be payable whether or not you acquired the
relevant infection as a result of practising your medical
profession.

For the purpose of this condition 3.18, an exposure-prone
medical procedure is a procedure where there is potential for
contact between the skin (usually finger or thumb) of the
healthcare worker and sharp surgical instruments, needles or
tissues (splinters/pieces of bone/tooth) in body cavities or in
poorly visualised or confined body sites including the mouth.
Procedures which lack these characteristics do not constitute
exposure-prone medical procedures because they are unlikely to
pose a risk of transmission of blood-borne viruses from infected
healthcare worker to patient.

14

What benefit will be paid?
We will pay the lesser of:

•	 $100,000 and

•	 six times the total of the Monthly Benefit and any Super

Continuance Monthly Benefit

but in no event will we pay less than $10,000.

This benefit is payable in addition to any other benefit but is only
payable once for a Life Insured.

What exclusions apply?
This benefit will not be payable if, before you suffer from the
relevant infection, the Australian Government or relevant
government body has approved a medical treatment which if
applied to you:

•	 would be likely to make it improbable that the relevant infection

could be transmitted to patients for whom you perform or
assist in medical procedures and

•	 would allow the registered authority, board, association or

body which authorises or licenses you to practise your medical
profession, to permit you to perform or assist in exposure-
prone medical procedures.

3.19 Extended Cover
If:

•	 your Occupation Group is ‘C’, ‘G’, ‘P’, ‘J’, ‘K’ or ‘S’

•	 the Cover Expiry Date shown for you on the Policy Schedule
is the Policy Anniversary Date immediately before your 65th
birthday

•	 the TTD Cover Option provided for under condition 4.6 does

not apply to you under this Policy

•	 no benefit is payable for you under this Policy for the month

immediately before the Cover Expiry Date and

•	 you have cover under this Policy on the day before the Cover

Expiry Date

we will, on the terms and conditions of this Policy, provide you
with cover for Total Disability from the Cover Expiry Date until the
Extended Cover Expiry Date but this extended cover will only
apply on the following basis:

•	 If the Waiting Period set out in the Policy Schedule is less than
one month, the Waiting Period which applies for the purpose
of the extended cover is not the period set out as such in the
Policy Schedule but is instead the period of one month.

•	 The Benefit Period which applies for the purpose of the

extended cover is not the period shown as such in the Policy
Schedule but is instead the period of one year.

•	 During the period of your extended cover you have an

‘Indemnity Policy’ for the purposes of the terms and conditions
of this Policy (even if the Monthly Benefit shown on your Policy
Schedule appears as ‘Agreed Value’ or ‘Guaranteed Agreed
Value’).

•	 In determining the Total Disability Benefit we will pay on

account of the extended cover, the Monthly Benefit will not
be taken to be more than $30,000.

•	 The only benefits we will pay on account of the extended

cover is the Total Disability Benefit under condition 3.1 and the
Reward Cover Benefit under condition 3.17. No other benefit is
payable on account of that cover.

•	 The premium rate option which applies for the purpose of the
extended cover is the Stepped Premium Rate option even if
the word ‘Level’ appears as the ‘Premium Type’ in the Policy
Schedule.

•	 A Total Disability Benefit payable on account of the extended
cover will only be paid until the first of the following events
occurs:

 –   you are no longer Totally Disabled

 –   you come to the end of the one year Benefit Period

 –   the Extended Cover Expiry Date is reached

 –   the termination of this policy

 –   your death.

•	 If you have returned to work on a full-time basis after receiving
a Total Disability Benefit on account of the extended cover, but
suffer a recurrence of the same or a related Sickness or Injury
and it results in Total Disability within six months from the date
you were last on claim but before the Extended Cover Expiry
Date, we will waive the Waiting Period and treat the Total
Disability as a continuation of the original claim.

•	 If selected, the Premium Saver Option will not apply to limit the
number of Monthly Benefit payments we will make on account
of a claim for the Total Disability Benefit under extended cover.
However, from the Cover Expiry Date, the premium payable
under this Policy will no longer be reduced on account of your
selection of the Premium
Saver Option.

3.20 Guaranteed Insurability
Once in any three year period after you become a Life Insured
under this Policy, but not after your 55th birthday, an application
can be made to us, without further evidence of health, to
increase both the relevant Monthly Benefit amount and any
Super Continuance Monthly Benefit amount in line with an
increase in your Monthly Income.

For the purpose of this condition 3.20:

•	 The Monthly Benefit amount is the amount shown in your
Policy Schedule as the Monthly Benefit as increased in
accordance with condition 3.3.

•	 The Super Continuance Monthly Benefit amount is the amount

shown in your Policy Schedule as the Super Continuance
Monthly Benefit as increased in accordance with condition 3.3.

This benefit is subject to the following conditions:

•	 The application for an increase in cover pursuant to this

condition 3.20 must be accompanied by all requested financial
information relating to your Monthly Income (including, but not
limited to, a statement of your income over the preceding two
years).

•	 The relevant Monthly Benefit amount or Super Continuance

Monthly Benefit amount, as applicable, can only be increased
under this condition 3.20 by up to 10%.

15

Policy conditions

•	 No benefit will be payable under this Policy on account of an
increase in cover under this condition 3.20 if, at the time the
increase is applied for, a benefit is payable under this Policy or
circumstances exist which, if the subject of a claim, would give
rise to the payment of a benefit under this Policy.

•	 This benefit does not apply if your Occupation Group is 'X'.

•	 The application for an increase in cover under this condition

3.20 must be made to us before your 55th birthday and within
30 days before the Policy Anniversary Date which immediately
follows the date on which your Monthly Income is to be
increased and, if the application is accepted, the increase will
take effect from the next Premium Due Date.

•	 Your premium will (whether or not the Level Premium

Rate option applies) be increased to take into account
any increase in your cover according to the premiums current,
and with regard to your age, at the time of the increase in
cover.

•	 Unless we agree, an application for an increase in

cover under this condition 3.20 cannot be made if the original
Policy Owner is no longer the beneficial owner of this Policy.

3.21 Reduction of Waiting Period
You can, without the requirement to supply further medical
evidence, apply to us to reduce your Waiting Period from two
years to three months, six months or one year if all of the
following requirements are satisfied:

•	 as at the Date Insured From:

 –   the Waiting Period set out in the Policy Schedule is two
years and the Benefit Period is to Cover Expiry Date

 –   you were insured under a group income protection

policy and

 –   your insurance under the group income protection policy
provided for a benefit payment period of two years and

•	 when you applied for this Policy:

 –   you notified us in writing of your insurance under the group
income protection policy, including the two year benefit
payment period which applied to you under that policy

For the purpose of this condition 3.21, a group income protection
policy means either:

•	 a group income protection policy held by a trustee of a

superannuation fund of which you were a standard employer-
sponsored member in terms of the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Act or

•	 a group income protection held by an employer under which
you and others were insured in your capacity as employees
of the employer.

3.22 Unemployment Benefit
When does the benefit start?
If:

•	 you have been Employed for at least 180 consecutive days

and

•	 immediately following that period of Employment you have a

Loan and become Unemployed for more than 60 consecutive
days

we will pay monthly in arrears to your Loan account 1/30th of the
Unemployment Benefit for each additional day that the
Unemployment continues and your Loan remains in place.

If the Unemployment Benefit has been paid for a continuous
period of Unemployment, a benefit can only become payable on
account of a subsequent period of Unemployment if you have
first returned to Employment for at least 180 consecutive days. If,
however, two periods of Unemployment are separated by 90
consecutive days or less, we will treat this as one continuous
period of Unemployment, but we will not treat any more than two
separate periods of Unemployment as one continuous period of
Unemployment.

How long will we pay the benefit?
The Unemployment Benefit will end when the first of the following
events occurs:

•	 you no longer have a Loan

•	 the day you return to any gainful occupation

•	 we have paid the Unemployment Benefit for three months for

 –   benefits were not payable for you under the group income

any one continuous period of Unemployment

protection policy and

 –   your insurance under the group income protection policy

subsequently ceases

•	 your application to reduce your Waiting Period is made in
writing within 30 days of your insurance ceasing under the
group income protection policy

•	 at the time of your application to reduce your Waiting Period,
the group income protection policy is in force and you are
ineligible to exercise any continuation or similar option under
that policy and you have not exercised any such option and

•	 no benefits are payable for you under this Policy when you

make your application to reduce your Waiting Period.

If your application to reduce your Waiting Period is accepted by
us, the change in your Waiting Period will be effective from the
Premium Due Date immediately following our acceptance of your
application.

•	 the day you cease to be a permanent Australian resident

•	 the Cover Expiry Date is reached

•	 if you become Unemployed during the term of a Fixed Term

Contract, the expiry date of that contract

•	 the termination of this Policy

•	 the day a total and permanent disablement benefit (including
a Permanent Disablement benefit), terminal illness benefit,
trauma benefit or other similar benefit becomes payable for
you under this or any other insurance policy or

•	 your death.

An Unemployment Benefit will not be paid in respect of any
period after the Cover Expiry Date.

Limitations and exclusions
If you are both Totally Disabled and Unemployed at the same
time in terms of this Policy, we will only pay the highest of the
Total Disability Benefit and the Unemployment Benefit.

16

If, at the relevant time, you have more than one Loan the
Unemployment Benefit will be payable with respect to each Loan,
but for all applicable Loans we will pay no more in total than the
Monthly Benefit shown in your Policy Schedule as increased or
decreased in accordance with the conditions of this Policy.

We will not pay the Unemployment Benefit:

•	 for any period of Unemployment for which you do not have a

Loan

•	 for any period when you are not Continuously Unemployed

•	 if the Unemployment occurs while you are working

outside Australia

•	 if the Unemployment is directly or indirectly caused by, or

results from:

 –   you ceasing work of a casual, seasonal or temporary nature

 –   the expiration of a Fixed Term Contract or specified period

of work

 –   your deliberate or serious misconduct

 –   you resigning, accepting voluntary redundancy, retiring early

or abandoning your employment.

We will not pay the Unemployment Benefit if the Unemployment
commences or occurs, or you were aware of your impending
Unemployment, prior to, or on or within 60 days after the Date
Insured From or the reinstatement of this Policy.

If, however:

•	 we have agreed that the Unemployment Benefit is replacing
existing unemployment cover you have with us which is
subject to a similar exclusion and

•	 your level of unemployment cover has not increased under the

Unemployment Benefit,

the 60 days referred to in this exclusion will be reduced by the
expired period of the exclusion which applies to your existing
unemployment cover.

If the relevant period under the exclusion which applies to your
existing unemployment cover is at least 60 days and has expired
then we will waive this exclusion except to the extent it applies to
a reinstatement of this Policy. If the Unemployment Benefit
exceeds the unemployment cover being replaced, this exclusion
will apply in its entirety to the amount of the excess.

Definitions
For the purpose of this condition 3.22, the following definitions
apply:

Bank means the Commonwealth Bank of Australia or such other
entity within the Commonwealth Bank Group of companies that
provides the Loan.

Continuously Unemployed means Unemployment which
continues without interruption and during which you are
registered as Unemployed with a recognised employment agency
and actively seeking Employment. You do not have to be in
receipt of unemployment benefits from the Australian
Government to be Continuously Unemployed.

Employed/Employment means Permanently Employed,
Permanent Employment or employed or employment under a
Fixed Term Contract.

It does not include self-employment.

Fixed Term Contract means one or more contracts providing for
at least 20 hours per week of continual and regular employment,
where such contract or contracts is or are:

•	 for salary or wages

•	 for a term no longer than a specified period

•	 with the same employer, being an employer who employs at

least five employees and

•	 for a combined period of at least 18 consecutive months.

Loan means a home loan, investment home loan, line of credit
facility, business loan, personal loan or margin loan which is
funded by the Bank.

Minimum Monthly Repayment is the minimum amount you must
pay under a Loan for the month commencing on the first day
from which the benefit for the relevant Unemployment accrues.
However, if the relevant Unemployment continues beyond that
month, then the Minimum Monthly Repayment will, for each
subsequent month during which the relevant Unemployment
continues, be the minimum amount you must pay under your
Loan for that month.

In determining the Minimum Monthly Repayment, the following
conditions apply:

•	 The Minimum Monthly Repayment will be determined on the
basis that the lowest rate of interest payable under your Loan
applies.

•	 The Minimum Monthly Repayment will be determined without
regard to any overdue payment or interest on such a payment
or any fees, charges, expenses, taxes, duties or other imposts
payable under your Loan as a consequence of the overdue
payment.

•	 The Minimum Monthly Repayment will be determined on

the basis of an amount which is no more than the amount
required to discharge your liability under the applicable Loan
as at the date you first became aware of your impending
Unemployment.

Permanent Employment/Permanently Employed means at least
20 hours per week of continual, permanent and regular
Employment for salary or wages where such Employment:

•	 is with an employer who employs at least five employees and

•	 is not temporary, seasonal, casual or under a contract based
upon a specified period or completion of specified work.

Unemployed/Unemployment means:

•	 if Permanently Employed, loss of employment as a result of

being terminated or made redundant by one’s employer, where
such loss is not of a voluntary basis

•	 if employed on a Fixed Term Contract, loss of employment
prior to the expiry date of the contract as a result of being
terminated or made redundant by one’s employer, where such
loss is not of a voluntary nature.

17

Policy conditions

You will not be regarded as Unemployed if your Unemployment
was immediately preceded by a period of self-employment.

Unemployment Benefit is the lesser of the following amounts:

•	 the Monthly Benefit shown in your Policy Schedule as

increased or decreased in accordance with the conditions of
this Policy

•	 the Minimum Monthly Repayment.

If there is no Minimum Monthly Repayment, the Unemployment
Benefit is nil.

Where benefits are payable for part of a month, the
Unemployment Benefit is divided by 30 to arrive at a daily benefit.

3.23 Domestic Help Benefit
The Domestic Help Benefit will be payable while your Spouse is
Accidentally Disabled and you are incurring child minding or
housekeeping expenses because of your Spouse’s inability to
perform his or her normal child rearing or domestic duties. For
this benefit to be payable, your Spouse must satisfy both of the
following immediately before his or her Accidental Disability
starts:

•	 he or she must be 45 years old or younger and

•	 he or she must be engaged in full-time domestic duties or

child rearing.

What does Accidentally Disabled & Spouse mean?
For the purpose of this condition 3.23:

•	 Accidentally Disabled/Accidental Disability means your Spouse
is, due to Injury, unable to perform domestic duties or child
rearing and confined to the home and is under the regular
treatment, and following the advice of, a Medical Practitioner.

•	 Spouse means the Spouse of you the Life Insured.

What benefit will be paid?
The lesser of the following will be paid to you each month (for a
maximum of three months) your Spouse is Accidentally Disabled
and you incur child minding or housekeeping expenses:

•	 the expenses incurred in the relevant month

•	 $750.

When will we pay the benefit?
The Domestic Help Benefit starts to accrue from the first day you
qualify for the benefit and is paid monthly in arrears. This benefit
will only be paid for a maximum of three months in total during
the term of this policy.

When does the benefit end?
The Domestic Assistance Benefit will end on the first of:

•	 when your Spouse is no longer Accidentally Disabled

•	 the benefit has been paid for three months

•	 your Spouse reaches age 46

•	 the termination of this Policy

•	 your Spouse’s death.

A Domestic Help Benefit will not be paid in respect of any
period of Accidental Disability after the Cover Expiry Date
applying to you.

18

4. Options
4.1 Increasing Claim Option
The Increasing Claim Option applies where the words ‘Increasing
Claim Option’ appear under the ‘Additional Options’ section of
your Policy Schedule.

If you have continued to receive a Total Disability Benefit or Partial
Disability Benefit for more than twelve months, we will increase
the Monthly Benefit and any Super Continuance Monthly Benefit
by the Indexation Factor on each anniversary of the date when
benefits first started to accrue. This option does not apply to
increase the Monthly Benefit and any Super Continuance
Monthly Benefit in the event that you are receiving a Total
Disability Benefit on account of extended cover provided under
condition 3.19.

4.2 Accident Option
The Accident Option applies where the words ‘Accident Option’
appear under the ‘Additional Options’ section of your Policy
Schedule.

If a 14 day or one month Waiting Period appears in your Policy
Schedule or a one month Waiting Period applies on account of
extended cover provided under condition 3.19, and the Life
Insured is Totally Disabled due to an Injury for three consecutive
days during the Waiting Period, the Accident Option will pay
1/30th of the Monthly Benefit (but not any Super Continuance
Monthly Benefit) for each day that the Life Insured is Totally
Disabled during the Waiting Period and is not entitled to a Crisis
Benefit, Bed Confinement Benefit or Specific Injuries Benefit (or
would not have been entitled to the Specific Injuries Benefit had it
been paid as a monthly benefit rather than as a lump sum). This
benefit is paid for the lesser of the Waiting Period and the period
of Total Disability.

4.3 Super Continuance Option
The Super Continuance Option applies where the words ‘Super
Continuance Option’ appear under the ‘Additional Options’
section of your Policy Schedule.

If the Super Continuance Option applies, we will pay the Super
Continuance Monthly Benefit in accordance with the terms and
conditions of this Policy. Where this Policy provides for the Super
Continuance Monthly Benefit to be paid to a superannuation
plan:

•	 the Super Continuance Monthly Benefit will be paid directly to

a superannuation plan nominated by you from time to time; the
plan you nominate must be a regulated superannuation fund,
a retirement savings account (each as defined in the relevant
superannuation and taxation laws) or another superannuation
plan approved by us in our absolute discretion and

4.4 Cash Back Option
The Cash Back Option applies where the words ‘Cash Back
Option’ appear under the ‘Additional Options’ section of your
Policy Schedule. This option cannot be selected after the Date
Insured From and, if selected, the option cannot be cancelled.

Subject to the conditions set out below, if no claim has been paid
or is payable under this Policy, we will, on cessation of the Policy,
refund to you a percentage of all premiums (including Policy Fees
and Frequency Charges but excluding stamp duty) you have paid
under the Policy and which we have not otherwise refunded to
you.

The percentage of premiums we refund to you will depend on the
number of complete years between the Date Insured From and
the date of cessation of the Policy, as shown in the table below:

Number of complete years

Percentage refund

Less than 3

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10 or more

0%

13%

14%

15%

16%

17%

18%

19%

20%

This option applies subject to the following conditions:

•	 The option must apply to all cover and all Lives Insured under

this Policy.

•	 The option will apply to all premiums paid under this Policy

regardless of whether the cover in respect of which part of the
premiums were paid exists on cessation of this Policy.

•	 You will be ineligible to receive a refund under this option if
any claim is paid or payable in whole or in part under this
Policy regardless of which type of cover or which Life Insured
the claim relates to and whether or not the cover in respect
of which the claim was made still exists on cessation of this
Policy.

•	 You will be ineligible to receive a refund under this option
where the cessation of this Policy occurs by virtue of
your death.

•	 the benefit will not be payable if you have not nominated a

superannuation plan in accordance with this condition or in
circumstances where its payment is not permitted by the
relevant superannuation or taxation laws.

•	 If all or part of a claim under this Policy is paid or payable on
an ex gratia basis or without admission of liability, you will be
ineligible to receive a refund under this option even though we
do not admit liability for that claim.

19

Policy conditions

•	 Despite any other condition of this option, you will remain

eligible to receive a refund under this option if we admit a claim
under this Policy and the amount of your benefit is reduced to
nil under condition 8.1 of this Policy.

•	 If a claim is payable under this Policy after its cessation

(including a claim payable on an ex gratia basis), you must
repay to us any refund we have paid to you under this option,
but if the refund we have paid to you exceeds the total
proceeds of the claim, you will not be required to repay to us
the amount of the excess. On payment of the claim, we will set
off against the claim proceeds the amount you are obliged to
repay to us under this condition.

•	 For the avoidance of doubt, premiums will continue to be

payable for this option even if you become ineligible to receive
a refund under the option.

•	 If this Policy is cancelled due to non-payment of premiums
and you apply for reinstatement under condition 6.1 of this
Policy, one of the conditions of reinstatement will be that you
repay to us any amount we have paid to you under this option.
If we agree to reinstate your Policy, this option (including the
premiums payable for it) will continue to apply whether or not
you remain eligible for a refund under it and the reinstated
Policy will, for the purposes of this option, be treated as a
continuation of the original Policy (and, for the avoidance of
doubt, the period during which your Policy was not in force will
be taken into account in determining your eligibility for, and the
amount of, a refund under this option).

•	 On cancellation of this Policy for non-payment of premiums,
any refund payable under this option will be paid to you and
will not be applied by us to pay the unpaid premiums.

•	 Any increase or reduction of your cover under this Policy will

not affect your eligibility for a refund under this option.

•	 No interest is payable on any refund under this option between
the time you become eligible for it and the date of its payment.

4.5 Premium Saver Option
The Premium Saver Option applies where the words ‘Premium
Saver Option’ appear under the ‘Additional Options’ section of
your Policy Schedule. This option does not apply to Business
Overheads Cover or to the premiums payable for that cover.

This option is not available if you have selected the Cash Back
Option, TTD Cover Option or Permanent Disablement Cover
Option or if your Benefit Period is two or five years. However,
once the option is selected, it cannot be cancelled and your
premiums will be reduced as a result of having selected the
option.

If the Premium Saver Option applies, this Policy will, despite any
other provision to the contrary, be subject to the following
limitation:

•	 If you make a claim for a Disability Benefit under this Policy
due to a Sickness which is Mental Illness and the claim is
accepted, we will only ever make up to 24 monthly benefit
payments in total (for this purpose the Crisis Benefit will be
considered six monthly benefit payments) in respect of that
Sickness whether or not those payments relate to one or
more of the Total Disability Benefit, Partial Disability Benefit
or Crisis Benefit or to one or more periods of Disability or to
one or more claims, and once 24 such payments are made,
no further Disability Benefits will be payable in respect of
that Sickness or any other Mental Illness which is directly or
indirectly caused by, or related to, that Sickness.

For the purposes of this option, ‘Mental Illness’:

•	 means any disorder classified in Axis I of the Diagnostic and

Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Volume IV, published by
the American Psychiatric Association (APA) or such successor
or replacement publication (or, if none, such comparable
publication selected by us) current at the time the Disability
or condition, to which the relevant claim relates, first became
apparent and

•	 includes, but is not limited to, mood and anxiety disorders,
depressive illness, eating disorders and disorders related to
substance abuse or dependency, but

•	 despite the above, excludes Alzheimer’s Disease and

Dementia, as well as any illness or disorders caused by head
injuries (except where the Dementia or head injury is related to
any substance abuse or dependency).

4.6 Total Temporary Disablement (TTD) Cover Option
The TTD Cover Option:

•	 is only available and can only apply if the Benefit Period ends
on the Policy Anniversary Date preceding the Life Insured’s
65th birthday

•	 is not available if the Permanent Disablement Cover Option,
Cash Back Option or Premium Saver Option has been
selected

•	 cannot be selected after the Date Insured From and, if

selected, the option cannot be cancelled

•	 does not apply to Business Overheads Cover or to the benefits

payable on account of that cover.

The TTD Cover Option applies when the words ‘TTD Cover
Option’ appear under the ‘Additional Options’ section of your
Policy Schedule.

20

If the Life Insured suffers Permanent Disablement, we will not
from that time have any obligation whatsoever to pay benefits on
account of the Life Insured’s cover under this Policy, whether in
respect of:

•	 the Sickness or Injury which resulted in the Life Insured’s

Permanent Disablement

•	 any other Sickness or Injury the Life Insured suffers or

If you make this election we will, subject to the conditions of this
Policy, pay you the Permanent Disablement Benefit.

Once the Permanent Disablement Benefit becomes payable
under this Policy, we will have no obligation whatsoever to pay
any other benefits on account of the Life Insured’s cover under
this Policy, whether in respect of:

•	 the Sickness or Injury which resulted in the Life Insured’s

•	 the Life Insured’s Unemployment under condition 3.22.

Permanent Disablement

We will, however, pay a Medical Professionals Benefit if the Life
Insured’s Permanent Disablement results from a Sickness and
that Sickness is an infection for which the Benefit is payable.

4.7 Permanent Disablement Cover Option
The Permanent Disablement Cover Option:

•	 any other Sickness or Injury the Life Insured suffers or

•	 the Life Insured’s Unemployment under condition 3.22.

We will, however, pay a Medical Professionals Benefit if the Life
Insured’s Permanent Disablement results from a Sickness and
that Sickness is an infection for which the Benefit is payable.

•	 is only available and can only apply if the Benefit Period ends
on the Policy Anniversary Date preceding the Life Insured’s
65th birthday

•	 is not available if the TTD Cover Option, Cash Back Option

or Premium Saver Option has been selected

•	 cannot be selected after the Date Insured From and, if

selected, the option cannot be cancelled

•	 does not apply to Business Overheads Cover or to the benefits

payable on account of that cover.

The Permanent Disablement Cover Option applies when the
words ‘Permanent Disablement Cover Option’ appear under the
‘Additional Options’ section of your Policy Schedule.

Subject to the conditions of this Policy, if the Life Insured:

•	 suffers Permanent Disablement before the Cover Expiry

Date and

•	 is not, in our opinion, suffering from a sickness or injury which

will, within twelve months, lead to his or her death

you may elect to receive the Permanent Disablement Benefit in
lieu of receiving the benefits, if any, which would have been
payable under this Policy on account of the Sickness or Injury
which resulted in the Life Insured’s Permanent Disablement or
any other Sickness or Injury the Life Insured suffers.

21

Policy conditions

5. Business Overheads Cover
If the words ‘Business Overheads Cover’ appear under the
‘Additional Options’ section on your Policy Schedule, you will be
entitled to receive the Business Overheads Cover Benefit if you
have been Totally Disabled as a result of the same Sickness or
Injury beyond the Waiting Period.

The Business Overheads Cover Benefit will be paid in addition to
any other benefit payable under this Policy.

What is Total Disability?
For the purpose of this condition, the words Total Disability and
Totally Disabled each mean that, because of Sickness or Injury,
you are:

•	 unable to perform at least one Income Producing Duty of your

occupation and

•	 under Regular Medical Care and

•	 not working for more than ten hours per week.

What Business expenses are covered?
The Business expenses covered by this Policy are the usual
regular fixed operating expenses of the Business. These include,
but are not limited to, the following:

•	 rent

•	 principal and interest payments under a mortgage

•	 property rates and taxes

•	 electricity, telephone, gas, heating and water costs

•	 cleaning and laundry

•	 the remuneration and associated costs of any non-income

generating employee

•	 if your Occupation Group is ‘S’, ‘K’, ‘J’, ‘P’, ‘G’ or ‘C’, any costs
associated with employing a person after you became Totally
Disabled to perform the work normally performed by you

•	 principal and interest repayments under a loan for the

purposes of the Business

•	 leasing or hiring costs of equipment or motor vehicles

You will not satisfy the above definition if you are working for
more than ten hours per week, regardless of whether you are
working for reward or working in the Business.

•	 insurance premiums

•	 accountancy and audit fees

What benefit will be paid?
The Business Overheads Cover Benefit payable for a month will
be the lesser of:

•	 the Business Overheads Monthly Benefit as increased or

decreased in accordance with the conditions of this Policy and

•	 the covered Business expenses incurred during that month
while you are Totally Disabled. Where a Business expense
was paid by you before you were Totally Disabled, but we are
satisfied that the Business expense relates to or is referable
to a complete month during which you were Totally Disabled,
then we will treat a proportion of the Business expense (as we
consider appropriate) as being incurred during that month.

The Business Overheads Cover Benefit payable will be reduced
by:

•	 your portion of the income of the Business derived from

trading during that period

•	 the income generated by any employee(s) hired after you
became Totally Disabled to perform the work normally
performed by you and

•	 any amount received for the same period from any other

insurance policy to reimburse you for Business expenses,
unless we have expressly agreed not to apply a reduction in
this case.

•	 subscriptions to professional associations, including

professional membership fees

•	 security or advertising costs incurred under a contractual

arrangement with a third party

•	 bank fees and charges

•	 business vehicle registration and insurance

•	 postage, printing and stationery

•	 the cost of repairs and maintenance incurred under a

contractual arrangement with a third party

•	 any expenses specifically agreed to in writing by us.

What Business expenses will not be covered?
Business expenses not covered include, but are not limited to,
the following:

•	 any amounts paid to you, an Immediate Family Member

(unless disclosed to us before your cover began) or any joint
owner of the Business

•	 remuneration and associated costs of any income generating
employee, unless your Occupation Group is ‘S’, ‘K’, ‘J’, ‘P’, ‘G’
or ‘C’ and the employee was hired after you became Totally
Disabled to perform the work normally performed by you

•	 any payments for goods, stock in trade, plant or equipment

•	 any allowance for depreciation in real estate or of plant and

equipment

We will only reduce the Business Overheads Cover Benefit we
pay because of other insurance to the extent that the combined
insurance payments would otherwise exceed 100% of your
covered Business expenses.

•	 any portion of a Business expense which is normally payable

by someone else who has an interest in the Business

•	 any payment which we determine on a fair and reasonable
basis not to be a usual regular fixed operating expense.

22

Change of ownership
You must notify us if the underlying ownership of the Business
changes. Underlying ownership means a beneficial interest in the
Business held directly or through any interposed corporation,
partnership or trust. If this changes, we may vary the amount of
the Business Overheads Monthly Benefit in a way that reflects
those changes.

When will you receive the benefit?
The Business Overheads Cover Benefit starts to accrue from the
first day you are Totally Disabled after the Waiting Period has
ended and is paid monthly in arrears.

How long will we pay you the benefit?
The Business Overheads Cover Benefit will end on the first of:

•	 when you are no longer Totally Disabled

•	 when twelve times the Business Overheads Monthly Benefit

has been paid for any one continuous period of Total Disability

•	 when twelve times the Business Overheads Monthly Benefit

has been paid for any one Sickness or Injury

•	 the termination of this Policy

•	 the Cover Expiry Date or

•	 your death.

A Business Overheads Cover Benefit will not be paid in respect
of any period of Total Disability after the Cover
Expiry Date.

Automatic Indexation
On each Policy Anniversary Date, we will increase the Business
Overheads Monthly Benefit by the greater of
the Indexation Factor or 3%, unless you request us not to in
writing.

An indexed increase under this condition will not become
effective while you are receiving benefits. Automatic Indexation
increases will only become effective once benefit payments have
ceased.

Your premium will be increased to take into account the increase
in the Business Overheads Monthly Benefit.

23

Policy conditions

6. Premiums and charges
6.1 Premiums
Premium rate options
One of two premium rate options will apply under this
Policy, namely:

•	 the Level Premium Rate option or

•	 the Stepped Premium Rate option.

The premium rate option which applies will apply to all Lives
Insured under the Policy.

Level Premium Rate option
If the Level Premium Rate option applies, the word ‘Level’
appears as the ‘Premium Type’ in the Policy Schedule and the
premium payable under this Policy will not increase as a Life
Insured gets older, but instead will be calculated with reference to
the age next birthday of the Life Insured as at the date his or her
cover starts. The increased premium payable with respect to an
indexed increase in benefit amounts under this Policy will also be
calculated with reference to that age.

If, however, the Level Premium Rate option applies and
subsequently:

•	 we agree to an increase in benefit amounts under this Policy

•	 we agree to another benefit being added to this Policy

•	 we agree to any other change to this Policy for which an

increased premium is payable or

Premiums for all benefits outlined in this Policy will be placed in
our No. 5 Statutory Fund and insurance claims will be paid from
that Fund.

Payment of premiums
Premiums are payable on or before the Premium Due Date.

If we do not receive all of the premium due within 30 days of the
Premium Due Date, we may cancel the cover under this Policy.

Reinstatement
If cover under this Policy is cancelled due to non-payment of the
premium, you can apply to have the cover reinstated within
twelve months of the date that the unpaid premium became due,
subject to the following conditions:

•	 receipt by us of satisfactory evidence of health, occupation,

pastimes or other information relevant to the reinstatement of
cover

•	 if we agree to reinstate the Policy, cover will only start again

from the date of reinstatement

•	 we may impose conditions for the reinstated cover

•	 no benefit will be payable for anything that happened or first

became apparent while the cover was not in force.

If the Policy is reinstated, all unpaid premiums must be paid.

Waiver of premium
You do not have to pay any premiums:

•	 while a Disability Benefit or Specific Injuries Benefit is payable

•	 you take advantage of an option under this Policy for which an

•	 for a period of six months after the Crisis Benefit is payable or

increased premium is payable

(each hereinafter referred to as an ‘Event’),

the increased premium payable with respect to the Event will be
calculated with reference to the age next birthday of the Life
Insured as at the date the Event takes effect. Where the Event
entails the provision of cover which is the subject of an indexed
increase under this Policy, the increased premium payable with
respect to the indexed increase will also be calculated with
reference to that age.

Stepped Premium Rate option
If the Stepped Premium Rate option applies, the word ‘Stepped’
appears as the ‘Premium Type’ in the Policy Schedule and the
premium payable under this Policy will increase as a Life Insured
gets older. Under this option, the premium payable for each year
will be calculated with reference to the age next birthday of the
Life Insured as at each Policy Anniversary Date.

If this option applies and an increased premium is payable under
this Policy, the increased premium will be calculated with
reference to the Life Insured’s then current age.

Amount of premium
The premium for the first twelve months is shown in the Policy
Schedule.

Future premium rates are not guaranteed to be the same as
current rates. We reserve the right to change these for all policies
in a group; however, we cannot change the rates for your Policy
alone. Tables of premium rates are available upon request.

•	 if the Specific Injuries Benefit is payable as a lump sum, for the
payment period which would have applied under condition 3.6
had the benefit been paid as a monthly benefit rather than as
a lump sum.

If you have a Waiting Period of 14 days, one month, two months
or three months and we agree to pay you a Disability Benefit, any
premiums which fall due and you pay during the Waiting Period
will be refunded.

Unemployment Waiver of Premium
If you are less than 65 years of age and you become involuntarily
unemployed after this Policy has been in force for six continuous
months, we will, on request, waive the premiums payable for your
cover under this Policy for a period of up to three months. All
premiums payable for the relevant period will be waived except to
the extent that they are payable for Business Overheads Cover.

For the purpose of this condition, involuntarily unemployed
means loss of permanent full-time employment as a result of
being terminated or made redundant by your employer for
reasons other than disability or misconduct, where such loss of
employment is not of a voluntary nature. During your loss of
employment you must be actively seeking employment and be
either in receipt of unemployment benefits from the Australian
Government or, if you are ineligible to receive such benefits,
registered as unemployed with a recognised employment
agency. If, for the purpose of this requirement, you are ineligible
to receive unemployment benefits and you intend to register as
unemployed with a recognised employment agency, you must do
so within 30 days of first becoming unemployed.

24

You will not be regarded as involuntarily unemployed if your
unemployment was immediately preceded by a period of self-
employment.

For a waiver of premium to apply, we must, within 30 days of you
first becoming involuntarily unemployed and before you reach 65
years of age, be notified in writing of the request for the waiver of
premium provided for by this condition. It is a requirement that
the premiums we are requested to waive are payable under this
policy while you are involuntarily unemployed and have not
already been paid. If you cease to be involuntarily unemployed,
premiums will cease to be waived under this condition.

A request for a waiver of premium under this condition must be
accompanied by all requested information relating to your
involuntary unemployment (including, but not limited to,
statements from your former employer and, if applicable, the
employment agency with which you are registered).

We will waive premiums under this condition for separate periods
of involuntary unemployment, but we will only waive premiums for
a period of three months in total, whether your period of
involuntary unemployment is continuous or not.

Maternity Leave Waiver of Premium
If you go on Maternity Leave after this Policy has been in force for
six continuous months, we will, on request, waive the premiums
payable for your cover under this Policy for a period of up to three
months. All premiums payable for the relevant period will be
waived except to the extent that they are payable for Business
Overheads Cover.

For a waiver of premium to apply, we must, at least 30 days
before the date Maternity Leave commences and before you
reach 65 years of age, be notified in writing of the request for the
waiver of premium provided for by this condition. It is a
requirement that the premiums we are requested to waive are
payable under this policy while you are on Maternity Leave and
have not already been paid. If you cease to be on Maternity
Leave, premiums will cease to be waived under this condition.

A request for a waiver of premium under this condition must be
accompanied by all requested information relating to your
Maternity Leave (including, but not limited to, statements from
your employer or of your Self-employment and statements from
your Medical Practitioner).

We will waive premiums under this condition for separate periods
of Maternity Leave, but we will only waive premiums for a period
of three months in total, whether your period of Maternity Leave is
continuous or not.

For the purpose of this condition:

(a) Maternity Leave means:

•	 you are employed by an employer

•	 you take temporary leave from employment for the

care of a new born or new adopted child for a predetermined
period

•	 the leave is approved by your employer as being ‘Maternity

Leave’ and

•	 the leave is taken by you while you are still employed by that

same employer that approved your Maternity Leave

or

•	 you are Self-employed

•	 you take temporary leave from your Self-employment for the

care of a new born or new adopted child

•	 had you been employed by an employer, you would have been

considered by us to be on Maternity Leave and

•	 you have been Self-employed for a continuous period of

six months prior to the period of commencement of Maternity
Leave.

(b) Self-employed or Self-employment means:

•	 you are working in a business or an enterprise for at least 20

hours per week

•	 you have power or control over the business or enterprise

because you own it or are a shareholder in the company that
owns it or are a partner in the partnership that owns it and

•	 you are working for payment or reward and you are not an

employee.

6.2 Charges
Policy Fee and Frequency Charge
A Policy Fee is charged which covers some of the administration
costs of setting up and maintaining your Income Care Plus Policy.
If you choose to pay your premiums more frequently than
annually, a Frequency Charge will be applied to the annual
premium amount.

The Policy Fee and Frequency Charge are as specified in our
current offer document for this policy.

The Policy Fee and Frequency Charge may be increased at our
discretion. We may also increase fees and charges to reflect new
or changed government levies and taxes. We will notify you at
least six weeks before any such change to the Policy Fee or any
change to the Frequency Charge.

Stamp duty
Your premium also includes the stamp duty charged.

25

Policy conditions

7. Claims
7.1 How to claim
You must notify us of any claim or potential claim within 30 days
after the event that caused the claim. We will then send you a
claim form.

7.2 Our requirements
You and your attending Medical Practitioner must complete the
claim form and return it to us. We may also ask you to provide us
with, at your expense, additional information that we consider
necessary to assess the claim and satisfy us of our liability to pay
any benefit under this Policy.

This may include an examination of your financial records and tax
returns. If you are self-employed, a working director or a partner
in a partnership, we may also examine the accounting records of
the business or practice if we consider this necessary to assess
your claim.

Payment of a benefit is subject to you undergoing any medical
examination (by a Medical Practitioner of our choice) or other
examination which we consider necessary, at our expense.

We may also require you to provide us with your authority to
obtain further medical information about you in the course of
the claim.

7.3 Payment of benefits
Disability and Business Overheads Cover Benefits are
paid monthly in arrears from the expiration of the Waiting Period
unless otherwise stated. All benefits are paid in Australian dollars.

Where a claim is ongoing, you will be asked to provide regular
evidence of your state of health, at your own expense.

Medical reports, proof of earnings and substantiation of any
Business expenses claimed may also be required from time
to time.

Our obligation to pay any of the benefits is conditional upon you
performing your obligations under the Policy.

26

8. Limitations, exclusions and other
conditions
8.1 Benefit offsets
The Total Disability Benefit or Partial Disability Benefit which we
must pay will be reduced by any other payment that you receive
which exceeds 10% of your Pre-Disability Income:

•	 as a result of a workers compensation or motor accident
claim, or any claim you make under any similar State or
Federal legislation

•	 from any other insurance that provides income payments due
to sickness or injury, unless we have expressly agreed not to
apply a reduction in this case or

•	 if your Occupation Group appears as ‘A’ on your Policy

Schedule, as a result of a temporary loss of a licence granted
under the Civil Aviation Act 1988 or any comparable legislation,
unless we have agreed not to apply a reduction in this case.

Any payment which is in the form of a lump sum or is exchanged
for a lump sum has a monthly equivalent of 1/60th of the lump
sum over a period of 60 months.

The reduction in the amount of a Total Disability Benefit or Partial
Disability Benefit will only be made to the extent that:

•	 a Total Disability Benefit, when combined with any other
payment, exceeds the greater of either 75% of your Pre-
Disability Income or the total of the Monthly Benefit and any
Super Continuance Monthly Benefit

•	 a Partial Disability Benefit, when combined with your Monthly
Income and any other payment, exceeds 100% of your Pre-
Disability Income.

A reduction will not be made to the amount of a Total Disability
Benefit or Partial Disability Benefit if the other payment received
is:

•	 a lump sum or part of a lump sum paid as compensation for
pain and suffering, or for the loss of use of a part of the body

•	 a lump sum total and permanent disablement benefit

While you are entitled to the Specific Injuries Benefit or are
entitled to the Crisis Benefit, you are not entitled to a Total
Disability Benefit, Partial Disability Benefit, Unemployment Benefit
or a Bed Confinement Benefit. If the Specific Injuries Benefit is
paid as a lump sum, you will be considered to be entitled to the
benefit for the period over which it would have been payable had
it been paid as a monthly benefit rather than as a lump sum.

The Home Care Benefit will not be payable while you are
receiving the Family Support Benefit or the Accommodation
Benefit.

8.3 Pre-existing conditions
We are not liable to pay a benefit (including a Permanent
Disablement Benefit, where applicable) or an approved increase
in the Monthly Benefit or any Super Continuance Monthly Benefit
in connection with a condition which first occurred, or a condition
the circumstances leading to which first became apparent,
before the cover under this Policy or an increase in cover came
into effect unless:

•	 you were unaware and could not reasonably have been aware
of the condition or circumstances before the cover or increase
in cover came into effect or

•	 you disclosed the condition or circumstances to us before your
Policy or increase came into effect and we have not excluded
cover for the condition or any condition resulting from the
circumstances or

•	 the relevant benefit under this policy was issued by us on

the exercise of a continuation option under an eligible policy,
where eligible policy means a policy issued by us under which
you were, immediately before the exercise of the continuation
option:

 –   insured for the same benefit in an amount equal to, or
greater than, the amount you are insured for under this
Policy

 –   insured for a benefit payment period equal to, or greater

than, the Benefit Period which applies to the benefit under
this Policy and

 –   insured for the condition to which this condition 8.3 would

•	 a lump sum trauma benefit paid under an insurance policy (not

apply but for this exception to condition 8.3.

being a Crisis Benefit paid under this Policy)

•	 a sick leave payment

•	 a long service leave payment

•	 an annual leave payment.

If your Total Disability Benefit or Partial Disability Benefit is
reduced because of this condition, a part of the premium you
paid us in the last twelve months will be refunded and made in
proportion to the reduction of the benefit.

8.2 Concurrent benefits
If you would be entitled to claim both the Specific Injuries Benefit
and the Crisis Benefit, the benefit with the longest payment
period will be paid, but not both. The payment period for the
Crisis Benefit is considered to be six months. The payment
period for a lump sum Specific Injuries Benefit is considered to
be the period over which payments could have been made had
the benefit been paid as a monthly payment.

8.4 Exclusions
We will not pay a benefit (including a Permanent Disablement
Benefit, where applicable) which arises in connection with:

•	 war or act of war (whether declared or not) or

•	 any intentional self-inflicted Injury or any attempt at suicide.

It is against the law for us to make certain payments because of
legislation in connection with health insurance, including the
Private Health Insurance Act 2007 (Cth). We will not make a
payment under this Policy if the payment would cause us to
infringe this legislation.

27

Policy conditions

8.5 Benefit limitation
If your Occupation Group appears as ‘A’ on your Policy Schedule,
the benefits we pay in total for you under this Policy will not
exceed $2,000,000.

8.6 Term of your cover
Your cover under this Policy commences from the date we
confirm in writing and will continue until the first of:

•	 the Cover Expiry Date shown in the Policy Schedule

•	 the date we receive a written request from you to cancel your

cover

•	 if the TTD Cover Option applies and Business Overheads
Cover does not apply, you suffer Permanent Disablement

•	 if the Permanent Disablement Cover Option applies and
Business Overheads Cover does not apply, you suffer
Permanent Disablement and a Permanent Disablement Benefit
becomes payable

•	 the date we cancel the Policy if you have not paid the premium

due within 30 days or for any other reason

•	 the termination of this Policy

•	 your permanent retirement from the workforce, except when

this is a direct result of a Sickness or Injury or

•	 your death.

If your cover under this Policy is extended under condition 3.19,
then the reference to the ‘Cover Expiry Date’, in the first bullet
point above, shall be read as a reference to the ‘Extended Cover
Expiry Date’.

8.7 Changes to your Policy
We will notify you of any changes relating to fees and charges in
writing at least six weeks prior to the change prevailing. We will
confirm in writing any changes initiated by you. Only CMLA can
agree to change this Policy. No adviser, broker or other person
can change this Policy.

28

9. Medical definitions
Heart Disorders
Heart Attack
The death of part of the heart muscle (myocardium) as a result of
inadequate blood supply. The diagnosis must be based on either:

Nervous System Disorders
Stroke
A cerebrovascular accident or incident producing neurological
sequelae. This includes infarction of brain tissue, intracranial and/
or subarachnoid haemorrhage or embolisation from an
extracranial source. The following are excluded:

•	 the following medical evidence:

i)   elevation of cardiac enzyme CK-MB or

ii)   elevation in levels of Troponin I greater than 2.0 mcg/L or
Troponin T greater than 0.6 mcg/L or their equivalent and

iii)  confirmatory new electrocardiogram (ECG) changes or

iv) medical evidence satisfactory to us that the heart attack

reduced the Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction to below 50%
when measured at least six weeks after the heart attack

or

•	 any other medical evidence satisfactory to us which

demonstrates that myocardial damage has occurred to
at least the same degree of severity as would be evidenced by
the medical evidence required under the first
bullet point.

Out of Hospital Cardiac Arrest
Cardiac arrest which is not associated with any medical
procedure and is documented by an electrocardiogram, occurs
out of hospital and is due to:

•	 cardiac asystole or

•	 ventricular fibrillation with or without ventricular tachycardia.

Coronary Artery Disease Requiring By-pass Surgery
The actual undergoing of by-pass surgery (including saphenous
vein or internal mammary graft(s)) for the treatment of coronary
artery disease. Any other operations are specifically excluded
from this definition.

Repair and Replacement of a Heart Valve
Surgery to replace or repair heart valves, but does not include
percutaneous valvuloplasty, trans-arterial procedures or other
non-surgical techniques.

Surgery of the Aorta
Surgery to correct a narrowing, dissection or aneurysm of the
thoracic or abdominal aorta but not its branches.

Cardiomyopathy
Condition of impaired ventricular function of variable aetiology
(often not determined) resulting in significant physical impairment,
i.e. Class 3 on the New York Heart Association classification of
cardiac impairment.

Primary Pulmonary Hypertension
Primary Pulmonary Hypertension associated with right ventricular
enlargement established by cardiac catheterisation resulting in
significant permanent physical impairment to the degree of at
least Class 3 of the New York Heart Association classification of
cardiac impairment.

Open Heart Surgery
Open heart surgery for treatment of cardiac defect(s), cardiac
aneurysm or benign cardiac tumour(s).

•	 cerebral symptoms due to:

 –   transient ischaemic attacks

 –   reversible ischaemic neurological deficit

 –   migraine

•	 cerebral injury resulting from:

 –   trauma

 –   hypoxaemia

 –   vascular disease affecting the eye, optic nerve or vestibular

function.

Major Head Trauma
Injury to the head resulting in neurological deficit
causing either:

•	 a permanent loss of at least 25% whole person function
(as defined in the 6th edition of the American Medical
Association publication ‘Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent
Impairment’) or

•	 the permanent and irreversible inability to perform without the
assistance of another person any one of the ‘Activities of Daily
Living’ (as defined under Loss of Independent Existence)

as certified by a consultant neurologist.

Motor Neurone Disease
Motor Neurone Disease diagnosed by a consultant neurologist.

Multiple Sclerosis
The unequivocal diagnosis of Multiple Sclerosis as confirmed by
a consultant neurologist and characterised by demyelination in
the brain and spinal cord evidenced by Magnetic Resonance
Imaging or other investigations acceptable to us. There must
have been more than one episode of well-defined neurological
deficit with persisting neurological abnormalities.

Muscular Dystrophy
The unequivocal diagnosis of Muscular Dystrophy by a
consultant neurologist.

Paraplegia
The permanent loss of use of both legs or both arms, resulting
from spinal cord Sickness or Injury.

Quadriplegia
The permanent loss of use of both arms and both legs resulting
from spinal cord Sickness or Injury.

Hemiplegia
The total loss of function of one side of the body due to Sickness
or Injury, where such loss of function is permanent.

Diplegia
The total loss of function of both sides of the body due to
Sickness or Injury where such loss of function is permanent.

29

Policy conditions

Tetraplegia
The total and permanent loss of use of both arms and both legs,
together with loss of head movement, due to brain Sickness or
Injury, or spinal cord Sickness or Injury.

Major Organ or Bone Marrow Transplant
The human-to-human transplant from a donor to the Life
Insured of:

•	 one or more of the following organs:

Dementia and Alzheimer’s Disease
Clinical diagnosis of Dementia (including Alzheimer’s Disease)
as confirmed by a consultant neurologist, psycho-geriatrician,
psychiatrist or geriatrician. The diagnosis must confirm
permanent irreversible failure of brain function resulting in
significant cognitive impairment for which no other recognisable
cause has been identified. Significant cognitive impairment
means a deterioration in the Life Insured’s Mini-Mental State
Examination scores to 24 or less, and deterioration would
continue but for any effective treatment. Dementia related to
alcohol, drug abuse or AIDS is excluded.

Parkinson’s Disease
The unequivocal diagnosis of Parkinson’s Disease by a
consultant neurologist where the consultant neurologist confirms
that the condition:

•	 is the established cause of two or more of the following:

 –   muscular rigidity

 –   resting tremor

 –   bradykinesia and

 –   kidney

 –   lung

 –   pancreas

 –   heart

 –   liver

 –   small bowel or

•	 bone marrow.

The transplantation of all other organs or parts of organs or any
other tissue transplant is excluded.

Severe Burns
Tissue Injury caused by thermal, electrical or chemical agents
causing deep (third degree) burns to at least:

•	 20% or more of the body surface area as measured by the age
appropriate use of ‘The Rule of Nine’ or the Lund & Browder
Body Surface Chart

•	 both hands, requiring surgical debridement and/or

grafting or

•	 has caused significant progressive physical impairment, likely

to continue progressing but for any treatment benefit.

The Life Insured must be following the advice and treatment of a
specialist neurologist.

•	 the face, requiring surgical debridement and/or grafting.

Blindness
The permanent loss of sight in both eyes due to Sickness or
Injury to the extent that:

Body Organ Disorders
Cancer
Cancer means any malignancy characterised by unlimited growth
and which expands locally by invasion, but excluding
malignancies which meet the following medical and/or
histopathology classifications:

•	 Pre-malignant conditions;

•	 Carcinoma in situ, including intraepithelial neoplasia, but not if:

 –   the cancer is located in the breast and all breast tissue of

the affected breast is removed; or

 –   the cancer is located in a testis;

•	 Cervical dysplasia, CIN1, CIN2 and CIN3;

•	 Non-melanoma skin cancers, but not if the cancer has spread

to another part of the body;

•	 Prostate cancers which remain classified as TNM T1a, T1b
or another equivalent or lesser classification, but not if the
Gleason Score is 6 or more;

•	 Melanoma with a depth of invasion classified as Clark Level II

or less, or a Breslow thickness of 1.5mm or less;

•	 Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia with a classification

equivalent to Rai Stage 1 or less.

Chronic Kidney Failure
End stage renal failure presenting as chronic irreversible failure of
both kidneys to function as a result of which regular renal dialysis
is instituted or renal transplantation is performed.

30

•	 visual acuity is 6/60 or less in both eyes or

•	 the visual field is reduced to 20 degrees or less of arc

whether aided or unaided, and all as certified by an
ophthalmologist.

Loss of Speech
The total and irrecoverable loss of the ability to produce
intelligible speech as a result of Sickness or Injury which causes
permanent damage to the larynx or its nerve supply or the
speech centres of the brain. The loss must be certified by an
appropriate medical specialist.

Loss of Hearing
Complete and irrecoverable loss of hearing from both ears as
a result of Sickness or Injury, as certified by a specialist we
consider appropriate. This definition is not met if the person’s
hearing has been restored through any natural or assisted
means, unless the assisted means is a device implanted in
the cochlea.

Chronic Lung Disease
Permanent end stage respiratory failure, with FEV1 test results of
consistently less than one litre, requiring continuous permanent
oxygen therapy.

Loss of Independent Existence due to alcohol or drug abuse or
AIDS is excluded.

Activities of Daily Living
1.  Dressing – putting on and taking off clothing.

2.  Toileting – using the toilet, including getting on and off.

3.  Mobilising – getting in and out of bed and a chair.

4.  Maintaining Continence – having good control of bowel and

bladder function.

5.  Feeding – getting food from a plate into the mouth.

Defined Home Duties
•	 Cleaning the usual place of dwelling.

•	 Purchasing household food and items used for cleaning.

•	 Preparing meals for the household.

•	 Performing for the household laundry services such as

washing or ironing.

Work Ending Condition
The Life Insured has been absent from active employment as a
result of Sickness or Injury for a period of three consecutive
months and, at the end of the three months, the Life Insured
continues to be incapacitated to such an extent that he or she
will be unlikely to ever again engage in the full-time gainful
occupation he or she was engaged in immediately prior to
ceasing active employment and is under the regular treatment,
and following the advice, of a Medical Practitioner

However, if the Life Insured has been engaged in full-time
domestic duties or child rearing at the time of the Sickness or
Injury that gives rise to the claim, Work Ending Condition means
the Life Insured has been, through Sickness or Injury, unable to
perform domestic duties or child rearing and has been confined
to the home for a period of three consecutive months and is
under the regular treatment, and following the advice, of a
Medical Practitioner and continues to be so incapacitated to the
extent that he or she is unable to engage in (whether or not for
reward) any occupation for which he or she is reasonably suited
by education, training or experience and is likely to be so
disabled for life.

Severe Rheumatoid Arthritis
The unequivocal diagnosis of Severe Rheumatoid Arthritis by a
rheumatologist. The diagnosis must be supported by, and
evidence, all of the following criteria:

•	 at least a six week history of Severe Rheumatoid Arthritis
which involves three or more of the following joint areas:

 –   proximal interphalangeal joints in the hands

 –   metacarpophalangeal joints in the hands

 –   metatarsophalangeal joints in the foot, wrist, elbow, knee or

ankle

•	 simultaneous bilateral and symmetrical joint soft tissue swelling

or fluid (not bony overgrowth alone)

•	 typical rheumatoid joint deformity and at least two of the

following criteria:

 –   morning stiffness

 –   rheumatoid nodules

 –   erosions seen on X-ray imaging

 –   the presence of either a positive rheumatoid factor or the

serological markers consistent with the diagnosis of Severe
Rheumatoid Arthritis.

Degenerative osteoarthritis and all other arthritides
are excluded.

Loss of Limbs or Sight
The Life Insured has sustained, as a direct result of Injury or
Sickness:

•	 the complete and irrecoverable loss of use of both hands

•	 the complete and irrecoverable loss of use of both feet

•	 the complete and irrecoverable loss of use of one hand and

one foot

•	 Blindness

•	 the complete and irrecoverable loss of use of one foot and

blindness in one eye or

•	 the complete and irrecoverable loss of use of one hand and

blindness in one eye.

For the purpose of this definition, ‘blindness’ means the
permanent loss of sight to the extent that:

•	 visual acuity is 6/60 or less or

•	 the visual field is reduced to 20 degrees or less of arc

whether aided or unaided, and all as certified by an
ophthalmologist.

Other Events
Loss of Independent Existence
As a result of Sickness or Injury:

•	 there is permanent and irreversible inability to perform without
the assistance of another person any two of the ‘Activities of
Daily Living’ or all of the ‘Defined Home Duties’ or

•	 the Life Insured suffers cognitive impairment that results in the
Life Insured requiring permanent and constant supervision for
a continuous period of at least six months. The Life Insured’s
impairment must be established by a Medical Practitioner
nominated by us.

31

Notes

32

13 10 56
8 am–8 pm (Sydney time)
Monday to Friday
comminsure.com.au

Write to: Manager, Customer Communication, CommInsure Life Insurance, PO Box 320, Silverwater NSW 2128.

1
1
1
1
0
2

3
7
L
C

I

